Artichokes with white wine & thyme
Introduction:
This dish would be simplicity itself if it weren’t for the need to trim and prep the artichokes. We occasionally sell baby artichokes (pictured), which are easier to prepare as the immature chokes don't need to be removed from the centres. This would make a simple lunch with some good bread, but could be easily fortified into something more substantial with the addition of some white beans and cured ham. 
Ingredients:
3 large or 10 baby globe artichokes olive oil 1 large shallot, cut into a small dice 1 carrot, cut into a small dice 1 celery stick, cut into a small dice 2 garlic cloves, finely chopped glass of white wine 150ml vegetable or chicken stock 3 sprigs of fresh thyme 2 bay leaves small handful of parsley, chopped salt & pepper
Method:
To prepare the artichokes, pull away the outer leaves, breaking them off as near to the base as possible, until the lower half of the remaining leaves are a creamy colour and tender rather than green and hard. Cut off the top with a sharp knife, leaving the cream-coloured bottom section. Trim the stalk and base, cutting away the tough green outer layer and leaf stubs to reveal paler flesh beneath. Quarter the artichokes and cut away the fluffy chokes in the centre. Pop them in water acidulated with a squeeze of lemon juice until ready to cook. If you’re using the baby artichokes, trim them the same way but only cut away the very tip. Slice them in halves or quarters. There’s no need to remove the chokes. Warm 3 tablespoons of olive oil in a shallow saucepan or casserole. Add the shallot, carrot and celery. Cook gently for 10 minutes, until softened but not coloured. Add the artichokes and garlic. Season generously with salt and pepper. Fry for 2-3 minutes before adding the wine. Turn up the heat and let the wine reduce by half. Add the stock, thyme and bay leaves. Drop to a very gentle simmer and pop on the lid. Cook for 10-12 minutes, until the artichokes are tender. Taste and adjust the seasoning to your liking. Finish with a garnish of chopped parsley.