Baked cauliflower kedgeree with chopped eggs & crispy shallots
Introduction:
Kedgeree is traditionally a breakfast dish of the British Raj in India and fits neatly into the common acceptance that anything can become breakfast if you pop an egg on top. As it migrated back to these shores, it gained smoked fish as a component. In order to keep this dish vegetarian, I have replaced the fish with cauliflower and maintained a slight smokiness with a little paprika.
Ingredients:
1 cauliflower 2 garlic cloves 3 tomatoes oil for frying e.g. sunflower 2 cardamom pods 200g brown basmati rice kedgeree spice pot containing: ½ tsp mustard seeds, 1 tbsp curry powder, 1 tsp smoked paprika, 1 bay leaf 1 stock cube 2 eggs 2 tbsp plain flour 2 shallots 30g coriander 1 lemon salt & pepper
Method:
Prepare the cauliflower by removing the outer leaves and central stalk. Break the florets into small bite-sized pieces. Peel and finely chop 2 garlic cloves. Roughly chop the tomatoes. Turn the oven on to 200˚C/Gas Mark 6. Boil a kettle of water. Heat 2 tablespoons of oil in the casserole or saucepan. Add the cauliflower. Fry it gently for 4-5 minutes, until they start to lightly colour. In the meantime split open the cardamom pods; a firm tap with the flat of a large knife usually does the trick. Rinse the rice in a sieve under cold running water. Add the garlic, cardamom, mustard seeds, curry powder, paprika, bay leaf and tomatoes to the pan. Fry for a further 2 minutes. Stir to avoid the spices sticking. Measure out 600ml of water from the kettle. Whisk in the stock cube until dissolved. Add the rice to the pan of cauliflower, followed by the hot stock. Season with salt and pepper. Mix well, pop on the lid and bake in the oven for 20-25 minutes, or until the rice is cooked and the liquid absorbed. While the rice cooks fill the small pan with cold water and place the eggs in it. Put them on to the heat and bring slowly to the boil. Once the water is at a rolling boil, cook the eggs for 6 mins. Cool under running water immediately. While the eggs cook, peel and finely slice the 2 shallots. Place the flour in a shallow bowl and season it well with salt and pepper. Dredge the sliced shallots in the flour and shake away the excess.Heat 2mm of oil in the frying pan. Fry the floured shallots in small batches, turning well until golden and crisp. Remove with a slotted spoon and drain on kitchen paper. Wash the coriander, shake dry and roughly chop, stalks and all. Give the eggs a tap to break the shell, then gently remove them. Chop each egg in quarter’s. Cut the lemon into wedges. When the rice is ready, check the seasoning and adjust with a little more salt and pepper if needed. Fold through most of the chopped coriander. Pile the kedgeree onto plates and garnish with the crispy shallots, chopped egg, remaining coriander and lemon wedges.