Baked celeriac with spiced quinoa, kale & hazelnuts
Introduction:
You can roast a celeriac in chunks, but it can go a bit mushy. Baking it whole takes a bit longer, but the flesh stays firm as the heat and salt draw away moisture. Cut into steak-like pieces, it makes for a toothsome centrepiece. Although this dish seems complete, it is perfect as part of a veggie or vegan Christmas dinner with all the trimmings – the quinoa will cope with a good vegan gravy. You may want to remove the cardamom pods and cinnamon before mixing everything together; some people are happy to just eat around them.
Ingredients:
1 large celeriac 2 tbsp Dijon mustard salt and pepper 1 orange 150g quinoa 1 pinch of saffron - optional 1 tsp ground cumin 1 tsp ground coriander 1 tsp cardamom pods ½ cinnamon stick 1 head of black kale 25g dried cranberries, roughly chopped olive oil small handful of parsley, finely chopped 40g toasted hazelnuts, roughly chopped
Method:
Preheat your oven to 150˚C/Gas 2. Wash the celeriac and rub the outside with mustard. Season it very generously with salt – the mustard allows the salt to stick to the celeriac. Place it in the oven and bake gently for 2-3 hours, or until completely soft in the centre. Leave to cool for 20 mins. Put a kettle on to boil. Use a peeler to remove 4 long strips of zest from the orange. Put a saucepan on a medium heat. Add the quinoa, spices and orange zest. Dry fry in the pan for about 2 mins, until smelling fragrant. Tip in 400ml of boiling water, season well with salt and pepper, and bring to a gentle simmer. Cook for 12 mins, until the grains are tender and all the liquid is absorbed. While the quinoa is cooking, strip the kale leaves away from the stalks and tear them into bitesize pieces. Cook them in a saucepan with a dash of water and a pinch of salt for 3-4 mins, until wilted. Add a dash more water if they look like drying out and catching in the pan. When the quinoa is ready, stir in the kale, cranberries and 1 tbsp of olive oil. Taste and adjust the seasoning with more salt, pepper and a squeeze or 2 of orange juice. Cover and leave to rest while you finish the celeriac. Cut the skin away from the celeriac and then cut into 2cm thick slices. Heat 2 tbsp of oil in a frying pan and cook the slices until golden brown, about 3-4 mins a side. Pile the warm quinoa onto a serving plate and lay the celeriac slices on top. Scatter over the parsley and hazelnuts to garnish.