White bean chilli with salsa
Introduction:
A white bean chilli seems curious as we are so used to chillies being dark, rich and laden with kidney beans. This is a simple, light version with the same key spicing. The salsa is the star of the show and brings classic notes of tomato and pepper for a fully rounded dish. Chilli heat can vary, there is powdered and fresh included. Add each cautiously, to your taste. 
Ingredients:
125g brown basmati rice salt & pepper 125g cherry tomatoes 150g sweet mixed peppers oil for roasting & frying 1 courgette 1 tsp ground cumin 1 tsp dried oregano ½ tsp smoked paprika ¼ tsp ground cinnamon ½ tsp chilli powder – add to taste 1 tin cannellini beans 1 shallot 1 tsp light brown sugar 1 tbsp dried coriander leaves 1 lime 1 fresh chilli - add to taste 4 tbsp soured cream
Method:
Preheat your oven to 200˚C/Gas 6. Boil a kettle. Rinse the rice in a sieve. Add it to a saucepan with a pinch of salt. Cover with plenty of boiled water. Cover and simmer for 25 mins, until tender. Meanwhile, put the tomatoes and peppers in a roasting tray. Season and mix with a dash of oil. Roast for 15 mins. While the peppers roast, cut the courgette into 2cm dice. Heat 2 tbsp oil in another saucepan. Fry the courgette on a medium heat for 5 mins. Add the ground cumin,dried oregano, smoked paprika, ground cinnamon and a pinch of chilli powder. Fry for 1 min then drain and add the beans. Fill the empty tin a quarter full of water and add that, too. Season and simmer for 15 mins. Meanwhile, peel and finely dice the shallot. Add it to a bowl with the sugar, dried coriander leaves, a pinch of salt and juice from half the lime. Deseed and finely chop the chilli. After 15 mins roasting, tip the tomatoes and peppers onto a chopping board. Slice off and discard the pepper tops. Roughly chop the flesh. Add the cooked peppers and tomatoes to the shallot with as much chilli as you fancy. Mix to make the salsa. Season to taste. Drain the rice. Adjust the chilli seasoning to taste. Serve the rice and chilli topped with salsa and a blob of soured cream. Garnish with wedges of remaining lime.