Bean & vegetable hotpot with honey & mustard roasted parsnips
Introduction:
Give me a hearty, vegetarian bake any day; they really are one of the most comforting and tasty things to eat. This one is packed with veg and organic beans, and spiced up with vegetarian Worcester sauce. It’s simple and healthy, and served with my favourite roasted vegetable, the humble parsnip. You may have a little hotpot leftover if you don’t have a big appetite; it can easily be reheated or frozen for later use
Ingredients:
oil for frying & roasting, e.g. sunflower or light olive 1 small or ½ a large onion 2 carrots ¼ swede 1 tsp plain flour ½ tin chopped tomatoes 75ml white wine 1 tsp Dijon mustard 1 tbsp Worcester sauce 1 tin baked beans 1 baking potato 25g butter 300g parsnips 1 tsp honey 1 tsp wholegrain mustard
Method:
Put a pan of salted water on to boil. Peel and finely slice the onion. Peel and chop the carrots and the swede into small 1-2cm dice. Heat 2 tablespoons of oil in a large pan. Add the onion, carrot and swede and fry on a low heat for 15 minutes, stirring now and then. Add a splash of water if it looks like it might catch at any point. Meanwhile, wash the potato, leaving the skin on, and slice into thin, half cm rounds. Put your oven on to 190˚C/Gas Mark 4. When the pan of water comes to the boil, add the potato and cook for 3 minutes, then drain. Add the flour to the carrot and swede mixture and stir for 2 minutes. Pour in the wine, increase the heat a little and let it bubble for 1 minute. Add the chopped tomatoes, the tin of baked beans, Worcester sauce and Dijon mustard. Season with salt and pepper. Heat until bubbling, then transfer to a baking dish, about 25 x 15cm or similar (one that will hold the mixture fairly snugly). You could also use a medium-sized, deep, ovenproof frying pan if you have one. Layer the potatoes over the top. Cover tightly with foil and bake for 15 minutes. Meanwhile, scrub and peel the parsnips. Chop into thick batons, about 3cm wide. Toss the parsnips on a baking tray in just enough oil to coat. Season with salt and pepper. Once the hotpot has been in the oven for 20 minutes, add the parsnips and cook both for 15 minutes. Melt the butter in a small pan. Uncover the hotpot, brush the potatoes with the melted butter and cook both the uncovered hotpot and parsnips for a further 15 minutes. Mix the wholegrain mustard and honey. After 15 minutes, toss the parsnips in the honey and mustard mixture. Bake both hotpot and parsnips for about another 10-15 minutes, or until the parsnips are golden. Keep an eye on the parsnips to make sure they don’t burn. If you want a slightly browner finish to the potatoes, pop the hotpot under a hot grill for a couple of minutes.