Beef and veg fajitas with re-fried beans and soured cream
Introduction:
Fajitas are a super-fast way to a tasty and veg-packed meal. They’re traditionally served with all the individual components at the table to stuff and make them as you go along. Mexican style re-fried beans are easy to make; use red kidney beans or black beans, or if you can find them, pinto beans. If you can’t find any soured cream just use a thick Greek style yoghurt. 
Ingredients:
oil for frying, e.g. vegetable 1 brown onion, finely diced 1 tsp ground cumin 1 tsp ground coriander 1 large or 2 small garlic cloves, finely chopped or crushed 1 tin red kidney beans, drained & rinsed ½ vegetable stock cube 4 wholemeal flour tortillas 200g beef strips (either strips of stir-fry beef, thinly sliced escalopes or steak if you’re feeling wealthier) 1 red onion, finely sliced 1 chilli, deseeded & finely chopped 1 carrot, peeled & cut into thin matchsticks or thin rounds 1 red pepper, chopped into 1cm strips 1 courgette, chopped into ½ moon shapes 1 tsp dried thyme 1 tsp paprika ¼ tsp smoked sweet paprika ¼ tsp allspice 250ml soured cream bunch fresh coriander, leaves roughly chopped salt & pepper
Method:
Heat 2 tablespoons of oil in a medium to large saucepan. Add the brown onion and cook on a low heat, stirring now and then, for 10 minutes. Add a splash of water at any point if it looks like it might catch and burn. Add the ground cumin, ground coriander and garlic to the onion. Stir for 1 minute. Add the red kidney beans and crumble in the stock cube. Refill the kidney bean tin ⅔ with water and add that too. Bring the pan up to a low boil and cook for 10 minutes. Keep an eye on the liquid level, top up with a splash more water if they dry out too much. Preheat oven to a 160˚C/Gas 2. Get the tortillas ready on a baking tray. Once the kidney beans have cooked for 10 minutes, coarsely mash them in the pan. Reheat gently on a low heat, stirring now and then so the bottom doesn’t catch, for about 2-5 minutes, just enough so they thicken up slightly. While the beans thicken, pop the tortillas in the oven to warm through. Heat 2 tablespoons of oil in a wok or large frying pan. Add the beef and all the veg – pepper, carrot, red onion, courgette, chilli, dried spices (thyme, paprikas, allspice) and a little salt and pepper. Stir-fry for 5 minutes. Once cooked, season the refried beans with salt and pepper to taste. Divide the beans between 2 serving plates. Fill the tortillas with the stir-fried veg, beef and top with a dollop of soured cream and some fresh coriander. Alternatively, serve all the components at the table to make them as you go.