Beef Escalopes, white beans & poached leeks
Introduction:
You can use the same pan for cooking both the beans and beef. The beef cooks quickly, so the kale and beans should still be warm enough once everything else is ready. If not, return them to the pan to warm once the beef has rested. Leeks poach best when kept in fairly large pieces but, if yours are too large to keep almost whole (pictured), 4-5cm lengths work just as well.
Ingredients:
2 tablespoons capers 1 tin cannellini beans salt & pepper 1 cauliflower oil for frying 1 bay leaf ½ tablespoon coarse grain mustard 1 teaspoon bouillon powder 2 leeks 1 lemon 15g parsley 4 beef escalopes
Method:
Place the capers in a mug of cold water to remove some of the salt. Drain the cannellini beans (keep the tin). Put a pan of salted water on to boil. Trim away and discard the leaves and lower stalk from the cauliflower. Cut it in half. Lay each half flat-side down. Slice into 1cm thick pieces. If the cauliflower is large you may not need it all, approx. 400g will do Heat ½ tbsp oil in a frying pan. Add the cauliflower and a pinch of salt. Fry on a medium heat for 3-4 mins, turning the pieces once or twice, until they take on a little colour. Add the bay, mustard, beans and bouillon powder. Fill the empty bean can two-thirds full with water and add that too. Simmer gently for 10-12 mins, until the cauliflower is tender. While the beans simmer, trim the leeks and slice into 4-5cm lengths. Soak them in a bowl of water while you continue, to remove any dirt or grit. Finely zest the lemon. Pick the leaves off the parsley. Drain the capers. Altogether on your chopping board, finely chop the zest, parsley and capers, with a good pinch of salt. Taste the cauliflower and beans and adjust the seasoning with salt, pepper and a squeeze of lemon juice, to taste. Transfer them to a bowl. Give the pan a quick clean. Drop the leeks into the boiling water to poach for 4 mins, until tender, while you fry the beef. Return the frying pan to the heat with 1 tbsp oil. Season the beef escalopes with salt and pepper on both sides. Fry on a high heat for 1 min each side. Remove from the pan and and leave them to rest for a couple of mins. Drain the leeks. Mix with the caper and herb mixture and a drizzle of olive oil. Season with salt and pepper. Divide the cauliflower and beans between 2 plates. Pile on the herby leeks and top with the beef escalopes.