Beef voltini
Introduction:
The worst thing you can do with frying steak is fry it. It’s cut from the round of the hind leg and, despite its name, is not a value for money alternative to more expensive grilling steak. 
Ingredients:
400g (4 slices) frying steak 3 tbsp olive oil 4 slices prosciutto ham 4 slices firm, flexible cheese (e.g. Cornish gouda) for the filling: 2 tbsp fresh breadcrumbs combined with 2 tbsp milk (soak for at least 20 mins) 2 tbsp Parmesan, greated 2 tbsp pine nuts or, if you’re feeling stingy, sunflower seeds & raisins 2 garlic cloves, crushed to a paste 1 tbsp fresh parsley, chopped 1 tsp fresh rosemary, chopped for the tomato sauce: 1 onion, chopped 1 garlic clove, minced 150ml red wine 2 tins chopped tomatoes 1 tsp salt ¼ tsp freshly ground black pepper 1 tbsp fresh parsley, chopped 2 tbsp fresh basil, chopped
Method:
Combine all the filling ingredients in a small bowl. Tap out the slices of steak until they’re about 5mm thick. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. Lay a slice of proscuitto on each slice of beef, followed by a slice of cheese and then place 2 tablespoons of the filling in the centre. Roll up into parcels and secure with wooden toothpicks and a piece of string tied lengthways. Heat the olive oil in a casserole over medium-high heat. Add the beef rolls, turning carefully until brown all over. Transfer the rolls to a plate and set aside. Make the sauce: Add the onions and garlic to the casserole and sauté until they’re soft and translucent, about 5 minutes. Add the red wine and bring to a boil, cooking until most of the wine is evaporated, about 3-4 minutes, deglazing the bottom of the pan. Add the chopped tomatoes, salt and pepper. Bring to a boil and simmer for 2 minutes. Return the beef rolls and add just enough water to the pot so the beef rolls are just covered. Return to a boil, reduce the heat to low, cover, and simmer gently for an hour and a half. Add the parsley and basil and simmer for another 2 minutes. Season and serve with rice and a green salad.