Beef, celeriac and horseradish cobbler
Introduction:
This is a warming and lovely winter meal: rich, tender beef slow-cooked with veggies and topped with savoury scones. It's also a great recipe for using up odds and ends from your veg box – add in chunks of any root vegetables you have. Eat with kale, cabbage or winter greens. 
Ingredients:
900g diced beef for stewing oil for frying, e.g. vegetable or sunflower 2 onions, finely sliced 2 celery stalks, chopped into small pieces 2 carrots, peeled & diced 1 heaped tbsp plain flour 2 sprigs fresh rosemary, leaves only, very finely chopped 500ml dark ale 10 juniper berries 1 small celeriac or ½ a large one, peeled & cut into chunks salt & pepper for the cobbler topping: 400g self-raising flour sea salt 80g cold unsalted butter, cut into small cubes 240ml milk 2 tbsp horseradish root, peeled & grated 2 tbsp parsley leaves, finely chopped 1 egg, beaten
Method:
Preheat oven to 150˚C/Gas 2. Pat the meat dry with kitchen paper (this helps it to brown well). Heat 2 tablespoons of oil in a large flame and oven proof casserole (or use a large frying pan then transfer to an ovenproof dish). When very hot, add the meat and fry on all sides to brown it well; you need a good caramelised colour for the best flavour. Don’t overcrowd the pan or it will steam rather than fry; cook in batches if you need to. Remove from the pan to a plate. Add a splash more oil to the pan and add the onion, celery and carrot. Reduce the heat and cook gently, stirring now and then, for 8 minutes. Add the flour and rosemary and cook for 1 minute, stirring constantly. Pour in the ale, 100ml water and the juniper berries. Season with salt and pepper and bring up to a simmer. Cover (use foil if you don’t have a lid). Transfer to the oven and cook for 2 hours. Remove and add the celeriac. Cook for another hour, still covered. Make the cobbler topping next. Put the flour, salt and butter in a bowl. Using your fingertips, rub the mixture together until it looks like fine breadcrumbs. Stir in the milk, horseradish and parsley. Use your hands to bring it together into a dough. Form into golf ball-sized balls. After the celeriac has cooked for an hour, uncover the beef and turn the heat to 180°C/Gas 4. Place the balls all over the top of the beef and brush them with beaten egg. Bake for 40-45 minutes, depending on your oven, until the topping has risen and is golden brown.