Braised shoulder of lamb stuffed with salsa rossa
Introduction:
Salsa rossa is an amazingly versatile tomato sauce. It can be served with grilled lamb leg steaks or with firm white fish, used as a dip with veg or even spread on toast. Here it is mixed with couscous to provide a stuffing for a slow-cooked shoulder of lamb. 
Ingredients:
1 shoulder of lamb, boned (you could ask your butcher to do this) 100g couscous 1 tbsp olive oil 2 onions, sliced 3 garlic cloves, sliced 200ml red wine 1 litre lamb or chicken stock a branch of rosemary for the salsa: 6 tomatoes, skinned, deseeded & diced 1 large red pepper, roasted, peeled & chopped 1 garlic clove, crushed ½ red onion, finely chopped 1 tbsp capers, soaked in cold water for 20 mins, then squeezed dry & finely chopped 2 anchovies, finely chopped (optional) 1 red chilli, finely chopped 1 tbsp balsamic vinegar 1 tbsp parsley, chopped salt & pepper
Method:
To make the salsa, mix all the ingredients together in a bowl and season to taste. Open out the lamb flat and lay it on a board. Mix the couscous and salsa rossa together and spread them over the lamb. Roll up the lamb and tie in several places with string. Preheat the oven to 140°C/Gas 1. Heat the olive oil in a large ovenproof pan, add the lamb and cook over a fairly high heat until browned all over. Remove and set aside. Turn the heat down, add the onions and garlic to the pan and cook gently for 10 minutes. Pour in the red wine and stock, bring to the boil, then return the lamb to the pan with the rosemary. Season well. Place in the oven and cook, covered, for about 3–4 hours, turning occasionally, until the lamb is very tender. Remove the meat from the pan, place on a serving dish and leave to rest for about 15 minutes. Meanwhile, put the pan on the hob and boil the cooking juices until reduced to a coating consistency. Skim off the fat from the surface, strain through a fine sieve and adjust the seasoning. Serve the lamb cut into slices, accompanied by the sauce.