Broccoli & quinoa salad with preserved lemon & tahini dressing 
Introduction:
Most of the broccoli stalk is usable and equally as tasty as the florets. Cut the florets with a generous tail of stalk attached; trim it pencil-thick and it should cook at the same speed.
Ingredients:
150g quinoa - red or white 550ml veg stock 1 head broccoli, cut into tapered florets oil for cooking 20g pumpkin seeds ½ teaspoon smoked paprika 1 piece preserved lemon 1 garlic clove, finely chopped 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon ground coriander 2 tablespoons tahini 1 lemon A good handful of alfalfa sprouts (optional) 50g watercress Small bunch of mint, leaves shredded Small bunch of parsley, leaves chopped Salt & pepper
Method:
Preheat the oven to 200˚C/Gas 6. Place a large saucepan on a medium heat. Tip in the quinoa and heat for 3-4 mins, until the grains start to lightly colour; the odd one or two may pop. Add the stock to the quinoa (take care, as it will splutter). Drop to a simmer and cook for 12 mins, until tender. When cooked, most of the water should have been absorbed. Meanwhile, put the broccoli in the roasting tray, oil, season and roast for 10 mins, until the florets have started to colour and the stalks are tender. After 10 mins, remove the broccoli from the tray and keep to one side. Tip the pumpkin seeds into the empty tray, add the smoked paprika, a dash of oil and a pinch of salt. Toast them in the oven for 3 mins. Remove and discard the flesh and seeds from the preserved lemon (it is the skin and rind that is used). Finely dice the rind. To make the dressing, mix the garlic, cumin, coriander, tahini and 2 tbsp lemon juice in a bowl. Gradually add 4-5 tbsp water, whisking until it reaches a yogurt-like consistency. Season well with salt and pepper. Into the cooked quinoa, stir the broccoli, a good handful or so of alfalfa sprouts if using, watercress, lemon rind and most of the mint and parsley. Mix, taste and adjust the seasoning. Divide between 2 bowls. Scatter over the pumpkin seeds and remaining herbs. Drizzle the tahini dressing on top.