Broccoli & sweet potato curry with cashews & quinoa
Introduction:
This is a light, aromatic curry. The sweet potatoes could easily be replaced with squash or pumpkin if you choose to make it again. Celeriac or parsnip would work well, too. Quinoa is a great source of protein and dietary fibre and stands in well for rice with a curry. It has a different texture, with a light bite and pop to it, but it soaks up all the liquid from the curry well.
Ingredients:
1 onion 2 garlic cloves 25g ginger oil for frying, e.g. sunflower or coconut 1 large or 2 small sweet potatoes 1 head broccoli 1 stock cube 2 tsp ground turmeric 1 tsp ground cumin 1 tbsp Thai green curry paste 400ml coconut milk 100g quinoa 30g salted cashew nuts 1 lime ½ tsp black onion seeds salt & pepper
Method:
Put a kettle of water on to boil. Peel and finely chop the onion. Peel and finely chop or grate the garlic and ginger. Heat 1 tablespoon of oil in a pan and fry the onion on a medium heat for 5 minutes, until starting to soften. While the onion cooks, peel the sweet potato and chop into 1½cm cubes. Break the broccoli down into small, bite-sized florets. Measure out 400ml of boiling water from the kettle and crumble in the stock cube. Mix until dissolved. Add the garlic, ginger, turmeric, cumin and curry paste to the onions and cook for 1 minute, making sure that nothing sticks or burns. Add the coconut milk, hot stock and chopped sweet potato. Season with salt, bring to a simmer and cook for 10 minutes. Meanwhile, rinse the quinoa well in a sieve. Transfer to a saucepan. Cover with plenty of hot water and add a pinch of salt. Bring up to the boil and cook for 14-15 minutes, until the grains have popped open. After the curry has cooked for 10 minutes, add the florets of broccoli. Cook for a further 10 minutes or until the sweet potato is tender. While the broccoli cooks, coarsely chop the cashews and cut the lime into wedges. When ready, check the seasoning and adjust with a little more salt if needed. Garnish with cashews and black onion seeds. Drain the quinoa and serve alongside the curry with the lime wedges. Add the lime to your taste.