Broccoli, mustard and dill tart
Introduction:
A light, delicate vegetarian tart filled with a lovely trio of broccoli, mustard and warm, aromatic dill in a light custard. This makes a light lunch or dinner with a green salad dressed in a good vinaigrette. If you'd like to cut corners, start with shop-bought pastry. If you want a more substantial, non-vegetarian version, slivers of smoked salmon or flakes of cooked salmon are an excellent addition to the filling. 
Ingredients:
for the pastry: 250g plain flour, plus more to dust 1 tsp fine sea salt 150g cold unsalted butter, chopped 1 egg, lightly beaten 1-2 tbsp milk or water for the filling: 1 large broccoli, cut into florets small knob of butter 4 spring onions, finely sliced (or use a small onion) 3 eggs, lightly beaten 250ml crème fraîche small handful fresh dill, chopped 1 tbsp wholegrain mustard salt & pepper
Method:
For the pastry, in a bowl, rub together the flour, salt and butter with your fingertips until it resembles fine breadcrumbs. Make a well and add the egg and milk or water. Use your fingertips to bring it together into a dough. Turn onto a lightly floured work surface. Shape into a ball. Wrap in clingfilm and chill in the fridge for at least 30 minutes. Preheat oven to 180°C/Gas 4. Lightly grease a 9-10cm tart tin with butter. Roll out your pastry into a circle 3mm thick; use the base of the tin or a plate as a template to cut it slightly larger than the tin. Use your floured rolling pin to lift it carefully into the tin. Press firmly but gently into the grooves so there are no gaps. Fold the excess pastry over the top of the tin, then roll over the rim to cut it off. Prick the base several times with a fork. Chill for 15 minutes to stop it shrinking during cooking. Line with a piece of baking paper or foil large enough to cover the base and sides, add baking beans or dried pulses and bake at for 15 minutes. Remove the paper and beans, then bake for another 10-15 minutes. The base should be dry and crisp and the edges golden. Leave to cool. While the pastry cooks, make the filling. Boil the broccoli for 3 minutes. Drain, refresh in cold water, then drain again. Melt the butter in a pan and gently cook the onions for 2-3 minutes until soft. Remove from the pan and leave to cool slightly. Arrange the broccoli and onions in the pastry case. In a bowl, mix the eggs, crème fraîche, dill and mustard. Season and pour over the broccoli. Bake for 20-30 minutes, until just set.