Butter chicken with cauliflower rice & coconut cabbage
Introduction:
The use of cauliflower in place of rice has gained popularity in recent years as a low carb alternative. If pulsed, chopped or grated into small pieces it can ape the texture and bite of rice and takes a fraction of the time to cook. It may be the darling of dogmatic dieters but it is also tasty, good for you and a great way to sneak some veg into the dinner of even the most stubborn eater.
Ingredients:
1 onion 25g butter 1 veg stock cube 2 tomatoes 300g chicken 50ml yoghurt 2 tbsp curry powder 1 small cauliflower 1 cabbage 1 tbsp coconut oil 1 tbsp desiccated coconut 1 tsp black onion seeds salt & pepper
Method:
Put a kettle on to boil. Peel and slice the onion. Heat the butter in a saucepan and gently fry the onion in it for 5 minutes. Mix the stock cube with 500ml of boiling water, stir until dissolved. Roughly chop the tomatoes and add to the onion with the chicken, yoghurt and curry powder. Top up with 200ml of the stock and simmer for 25 minutes, until the chicken is cooked and the sauce thickened. While the chicken cooks, make the cauliflower rice. Remove the cauliflower leaves and the tough end of the stalk. Use a food processor or the coarse teeth on a grater to grate the cauliflower into small pieces. Remove the root core from half the cabbage with a V-shaped cut. Slice the cabbage very finely, widthways. Heat the coconut oil in the 2nd saucepan and add the cabbage. Keep on a medium heat and allow it to cook until wilting and softening, stirring occasionally. After about 8 minutes, add the desiccated coconut and black onion seeds. Keep on a very low heat until needed. Season with a little salt and black pepper. While the cabbage cooks, place the grated cauliflower and 150ml of the stock in the frying pan. Cook over a medium heat, stirring often, for 6-8 minutes, until the cauliflower is just cooked and the liquid evaporated. Check the seasoning of the chicken and the cauliflower rice and adjust with more salt if needed. Serve the cauliflower as you would rice, with the chicken on top and the cabbage on the side.