Cajun pork escalopes with sweet pepper quinoa
Introduction:
Escalopes are thin cuts of lean meat and, therefore, take little time to cook in the pan. This makes them perfect for spice mixes as they aren’t on the heat long enough to burn the spices and turn them bitter. Cayenne can have a chilli kick to it, if you are feeling cautious, use just half and add more at the end to taste.
Ingredients:
4 pork escalopes salt & pepper 1 teaspoon dried thyme 1 teaspoon dried oregano 1 teaspoon paprika ⅛ teaspoon cayenne - add to taste olive oil 150g sweet peppers 100g quinoa 1 shallot 1 lemon 15g coriander 15g parsley
Method:
Preheat your oven to 200˚C/Gas 6. Put a kettle on to boil. Mix the thyme, oregano and paprika together in a small bowl. Lay the pork escalopes on a plate. Season with salt and pepper then dust them with the spices and cayenne (to taste). Press and turn the pork to ensure an even cover on both sides. Keep to one side. Place the peppers on a baking tray and rub with a little oil. Season with salt and pepper. Roast in the oven for 15 mins, until collapsing and lightly blistered. Meanwhile, place a large saucepan on a medium heat. Tip the quinoa into the dry pan. Heat for 3-4 mins, until the grains start to lightly colour; the odd one or two may pop. Tip in 300ml boiling water (take care, it will splutter a bit). Add a pinch of salt. Simmer for 12-14 mins, until the quinoa is tender and the liquid absorbed. While the quinoa cooks, peel and finely slice the shallot. Finely zest the lemon. Roughly chop the coriander and parsley leaves. When the peppers are ready, remove the stalks and seeds. Slice them into long strips. Heat 1 tbsp oil in a frying pan. Fry the pork on a high heat for 1-2 mins on each side. Finish with a small squeeze of lemon juice and remove from the heat to rest. Mix the peppers, shallot, herbs and lemon zest into the quinoa with a dash of olive oil. Mix and adjust the seasoning with salt and pepper. Serve the pork and quinoa with wedges of remaining lemon on the side.