Carrot fritter pittas with harissa yogurt & pickled cucumber
Introduction:
These carrot fritters are a simple and swift way of turning a handful of ingredients into a tasty meal. You can play around with the spices; a mild curry powder works also well. The fritter mix may seem a bit wet but the chickpea flour forms a batter that binds it when cooked. Take care when flipping them as they can be a little fragile until fully cooked.
Ingredients:
½ cucumber 2 tbsp cider vinegar ½ tbsp light brown sugar salt & pepper 2 large or 3 small carrots 1 shallot 1 lemon 1 tsp ground cumin 1 tsp smoked paprika ½ tsp turmeric 1 tsp dried coriander leaves 1 tbsp harissa 150g yogurt 3 tablespoons chickpea flour oil for frying e.g. sunflower 4 pitta breads 1 tsp poppy seeds 50g salad leaves
Method:
Cut the half cucumber in half, lengthways, and remove the soft seedy core with the tip of a teaspoon. Thinly slice the cucumber. In a shallow bowl, mix the vinegar with the sugar and a generous pinch of salt, until the sugar and salt dissolve. Mix the cucumber into the vinegar. Leave to marinate, turning occasionally, while you continue. Peel and coarsely grate the carrots. Peel and grate the shallot. In a bowl, mix the carrot, shallot, 2 tbsp lemon juice, cumin, smoked paprika, turmeric and dried coriander leaves. Season and leave them to sit for 5 mins. Meanwhile, preheat your oven to 180˚C/Gas 4. Stir the harissa into the yogurt. Add the chickpea flour to the carrots then mix in 3 tbsp (45ml) water. Heat a shallow layer of oil in a frying pan, to a medium heat. Cooking in batches (approx. 6 at a time), dollop heaped dessertspoons of carrot mix into the pan and flatten them with the back of the spoon. Fry the fritters until golden, then gently turn them over and cook the other side. Keep any cooked fritters on a tray in the oven. You should get about 12 fritters in all. Warm 4 pittas in the oven for 2-3 mins. Drain the vinegar away from the cucumber. Mix the poppy seeds with the cucumber. Split the pittas open to create a pocket. Divide the fritters between the pittas and stuff in the salad leaves, cucumber and a dollop of harissa yogurt.