Cauliflower quinoa with spiced almonds
Introduction:
This is a vibrant dish with saffron-tinged cauliflower and juicy clementines. The spiced almonds really lift the dish but be careful when toasting the spices; burning them will give a bitter flavour. Slicing the cauliflower means it only needs a small amount of liquid to cook. Cut through the centre of the floret stalks, so the sliced pieces hold together. 
Ingredients:
1 tsp bouillon powder 125g tricolore quinoa (or any quinoa) 1 pinch saffron 1 cauliflower 1 carrot 3 clementines 20g flaked almonds ½ tsp ground cumin ½ tsp ground coriander ¼ tsp ground cinnamon salt oil for frying e.g. sunflower or light olive 2 tbsp cider vinegar 1 tsp light brown sugar 40g sultanas olive oil 15g parsley 50g watercress
Method:
Boil a kettle. Tip the bouillon powder into a measuring jug. Stir in 500ml boiled water. Rinse the quinoa in a sieve. Transfer to a saucepan and pour in 350ml of the stock. Simmer for 12 mins. Once done, cover and keep to one side until needed. Meanwhile, add the saffron to the remaining stock in the jug and set aside to infuse. Break the cauliflower into florets then slice into smaller pieces. Peel the carrot into long strips. Peel and thinly slice 2 of the clementines. Heat a frying pan and toast the almonds on a low-medium heat, until lightly golden. Add the cumin, coriander and cinnamon. Dry-fry for 1-2 mins, just until everything smells fragrant. Transfer them to a plate. Put the frying pan back on the heat. Add the remaining 150ml stock, the cauliflower and a pinch of salt. Simmer for 5 mins, stirring often, until the cauliflower is just tender and almost all the stock has evaporated. When the pan is nearly dry, add 1 tbsp oil. Fry for 3 mins, until the cauliflower lightly colours at the edges. Add the carrot and cook until starting to wilt; approx. 1-2 mins. Turn off the heat. Stir in the cider vinegar, sugar, sultanas, 1 tbsp olive oil and the juice from the third clementine. Season well. Finely chop the parsley, including any stalks if they’re not too thick. Fluff the quinoa up with a fork. To the cauliflower, add the quinoa, clementine slices, parsley and watercress. Gently mix. Divide between 2 plates and scatter over the spiced almonds.