Cauliflower & coconut laksa with kale & rice noodles
Introduction:
The reason for cooking the noodles and kale separately is to stop them clouding and overpowering the stock, the noodles with their excessive starch and the kale with a murky greenness. The quick blanching and cooling locks the colour into the kale leaves.
Ingredients:
25g ginger 2 garlic cloves 1 red chilli 30g fresh coriander 1 lime 1 tbsp sesame oil 1 vegetable stock cube 2 sticks rice noodles ½ small cauliflower 1 small head black kale 1 lemongrass stalk 400g tin coconut milk 1 tbsp soy sauce
Method:
Peel the ginger and garlic. Deseed the red chilli. Divide the stalks and leaves from the coriander. Zest and squeeze the lime. Make the laksa paste: blend the ginger, garlic and red chilli in a food processor with the coriander stalks, lime juice and sesame oil. If you don’t have a processor then finely chop the ginger, garlic, chilli and coriander stalks before mixing in the lime juice and sesame oil. Boil a kettle and mix the stock cube with 300ml of boiling water. Put the noodles into the heatproof bowl and tip over the rest of the hot water until the noodles are covered. Stir once and leave to sit for 4-5 minutes, until just cooked. Drain the noodles and cool in cold water immediately. Leave in the cold water until ready to use. Put a saucepan of water on to boil. Trim away the green leaves and stalk from the cauliflower and break half of the head into small bite-sized florets. Strip the kale leaves away from their stalks, discarding the stalks. Give the stick of lemongrass a few firm smacks to split the bulb end open. Blanch the kale leaves in the boiling water for 2 minutes until tender, drain and cool immediately in cold water. When cool, squeeze out as much excess water as you can from the kale. Chop it into fine shreds. Give the saucepan a quick clean, pop it onto the heat and add the laksa paste. Cook gently for 1 minute, until it starts to smell fragrant. Add the coconut milk, the 300ml of vegetable stock, soy sauce and lemongrass stalk. Simmer gently for 5 minutes. Add the cauliflower florets to the pan. Simmer for a further 5-7 minutes, until very tender. Stir in the shredded kale at the end. Drain the noodles and divide them between 2 deep bowls. Ladle in the hot laksa and garnish with the coriander leaves and lime zest.