Pan-fried celeriac & spiced kale couscous
Introduction:
In this recipe, we serve nutty slices of celeriac as the centrepiece, with a spiced harissa coating. The celeriac is served with a Moroccan-spiced vegetable couscous. Use a large frying pan for cooking the celeriac slices, so that they all sit all in one even layer. 
Ingredients:
⅔ celeriac oil for frying 100g wholemeal couscous ½ tsp smoked paprika ½ tsp ground cumin ½ tsp ground coriander 1 tbsp dried dill tops olive oil salt & pepper 1 red onion 20g pine nuts 1 tsp bouillon powder 100ml white wine 1 garlic clove 100g curly kale 1 carrot 1 lemon 1 tbsp harissa 1 tbsp date syrup
Method:
Boil a kettle. Scrub the celeriac. Chop off ⅓ (save that for another meal). Peel the rest. Halve it, then slice into 1½-2cm thick pieces, so they cook in time. Heat 2 tbsp of oil in a large frying pan. Fry the celeriac on a medium heat for approx. 4 mins on each side, until golden. Meanwhile, put the couscous, smoked paprika, ground cumin, ground coriander, dried dill tops, 1 tbsp of olive oil and a pinch of salt in a heatproof bowl. Cover with boiled water by 1cm. Cover with a plate and set aside. Peel and finely slice the onion. In a medium saucepan, gently toast the pine nuts for 2-3 mins, until lightly golden. Transfer to a plate. Heat 1 tbsp of oil in the same saucepan. Start frying the onion, stirring now and then, while you continue. Once the celeriac is golden, sprinkle over the bouillon and pour in the wine. Let it bubble and reduce by ½. Add 200ml of boiled water. Cook on a low boil for 12 mins, turning halfway, until tender. Add a splash more water if needed. Peel and chop the garlic. Strip the kale leaves from their tough stalks. Chop the leaves. Peel the carrot, then peel off long ribbons, rotating as you go, until you can peel no more. Add the kale and garlic to the onion with a drizzle more oil. Turn the heat up. Stir-fry for 3 mins, until the kale is starting to wilt. Add the carrot ribbons. Cook for 1 min then stir the veg into the couscous. Season and add lemon juice to taste. Remove the celeriac pan from the heat and transfer it to a plate for a moment. Into the frying pan, stir the harissa, date syrup and 3 tbsp of water. Stir, to make a thick sauce. Turn the celeriac in the sauce, then serve it with the veg couscous, sprinkled with pine nuts.