Chargrilled spring veg with green sauce & ricotta
Introduction:
Start with the peas and broad beans because you’ll have to spend time popping them out of the pods before you can pull everything together. That said, it can all be served warm or at room temperature so there is no need to rush or try and multi-task for the sake of it. Do take the time to get the heat right though, everything cooks fast so you can cook over a medium/high heat. Avoid leaping flames, you’ll just incinerate things before they have the chance to cook through – you want strong glowing embers with a few flickering flames.
Ingredients:
bunch of radishes 300g garden peas, in their pods 500g broad bean, in their pods 200g asparagus 125g spring onions 2 little gem lettuces, cut into wedges 150g ricotta - optional 1 lemon For the dressing: 1 garlic clove, finely chopped 1 tbsp red wine vinegar 1 tbsp Dijon mustard small bunch of parsley, finely chopped small bunch or chervil, finely chopped 2 tbsp chopped capers 1 tbsp chopped gherkins 4 tbsp olive oil
Method:
Light your BBQ - you want to wait until the flames have started to die down, so you should have about 30 minutes or so. Mix all the dressing ingredients together and season with salt and pepper. Wash the radishes well and thread them onto skewers (cut any very large radishes in half first). If you are using bamboo skewers, it is worth soaking them in water for at least 20 minutes before use, so that they don’t burst into flames. Brush the radishes with oil and season generously with salt and pepper. Brush the pea and broad bean pods lightly with oil, too. Place the radish skewers, peas and broad beans directly on the bars and cook for 5-6 minutes, turning regularly. It doesn’t matter if the peas and beans look like they are blackening too much as the pods will be discarded. If the radishes look like they are starting to blister, move them to a cooler part of the griddle. When ready remove and keep to one side. Brush the asparagus, spring onions and lettuce wedges lightly with oil. Season with salt and pepper and place them directly on the bars to cook for 4-5 minutes, turning frequently until tender. It will depend on the heat so use your judgement. The asparagus and onions should be nicely coloured and become noticeably suppler, the lettuce should be lightly coloured and half wilted. Pop the peas and beans out of their pods. If you are feeling thorough, you can take a few minutes to slip the papery skins away from the broad beans, too. Cut the radishes into thick slices. Slice the spring onions and asparagus into 2 or 3 pieces. Throw everything in a bowl with the lettuce wedges and spoon over the dressing. Crumble over the ricotta, if using. Serve with fat wedges of lemon.