Char sui pork with stir-fried veg & noodles
Introduction:
This is a simple and tasty way of cooking pork, with lots of added veg and a classic Chinese style char sui marinade with kecap manis (sweet soy), ginger, 5 spice and hoisin. Ideally, marinate your pork the day before, or for at least an hour or two before eating. However, if you are short of time or forget, just toss it in the marinating mixture and fry immediately. It will still take on some of the marinade when roasting, and you’ll also get the flavour from the juices at the end.
Ingredients:
50g piece ginger 25g light brown sugar 30ml white wine 1 pack of kecap manis 1 pack of hoisin sauce 2 tbsp honey 1 tsp 5 spice powder salt 1 pork loin 1 courgette 1 large or 2 small carrots 1 red pepper 1 large or 2 small shallots 2 sticks brown rice noodles 2 tbsp sesame oil 20g sesame seeds
Method:
Either the day before you eat (or 1-2 hours beforehand, see cook’s note): peel and finely grate the ginger and add it, together with the sugar, white wine, kecap manis, hoisin sauce, honey, 5 spice powder and half tsp of salt, to a baking dish. Add the whole pork loin, turning it in the mixture to coat it. Cover and chill in the fridge until the next day. When you want to eat: remove the pork from the fridge and uncover it. Preheat your oven to 210˚C/Gas 6. Heat a large non-stick frying pan. Add the pork (not the extra juices) and fry on all sides until browned and starting to caramelise (this takes nearly no time because of the sugar, so keep a good eye on it; you want it a good colour but not black and burnt). Transfer the pork to the baking dish with the extra juices in. Spoon over a little of the marinade from the base of the dish. Put in the oven and roast for 20 minutes. Meanwhile, put a pan of salted water on to boil and wash out the frying pan. Wash the courgette, carrot(s) and pepper. Peel the carrot(s) and cut in half lengthways, then into thin, half moon-shaped slices. Chop the courgette the same way. Cut the pepper in ½, remove the seeds and finely slice it. Peel and finely slice the shallot(s). Once the pan of water is boiling, add the rice noodles and cook for 3 minutes, stirring for the first 1 minute to stop them clumping together. Drain and cool in a bowl of cold water. Once the pork is cooked, remove from the oven and leave to rest. Heat 2 tablespoons of oil in the frying pan. Add all the veg and stir-fry for 3 minutes. Add most of the sesame seeds, sesame oil and cooked noodles. Toss together to combine and reheat the noodles. Divide between 2 serving bowls or plates. Slice the pork and lay on top of the veg and noodles. Pour over any remaining juices from the baking dish and sprinkle over the remaining sesame seeds.