Chicken korma with rice, carrot salad & garlic flatbreads
Introduction:
Korma is often considered a beginners’ curry; the safe choice in a minefield of red-hot wrong turns. This may, in part, be due to the fact that its charm lies more in its fragrance than its fieriness but, more often than not, because it is de-clawed into creamy blandness. Our korma paste is made by West Country spices down in Devon and doesn’t shy away from using plenty of fragrant cardamom and clove as well as a healthy hit of heat. Regional variations differ between coconut and yoghurt (I’ve sat on the fence and opted for some of each) but always use ground nuts as a thickener.
Ingredients:
1 large or 2 smaller onions 3 garlic cloves plain oil e.g. sunflower 300g diced chicken breast 2 sachets korma paste, use 1½ pot yoghurt 200ml tin coconut milk 40g ground almonds 150g basmati rice 30g coriander 2 carrots 1 pack tortillas 1 tsp black onion seeds 1 lemon salt & pepper
Method:
Peel and finely slice the onions. Peel 3 garlic cloves and finely chop or crush them. Heat 2 tablespoons of oil in a saucepan. Add the onions and a pinch of salt to the pan. Fry them gently for 5 minutes to soften them. Meanwhile, put a kettle on to boil. Season the chicken with salt and pepper. Add it to the pan and fry for 3-4 minutes until it and the onions have taken on a little colour. Add 1½ packs of korma paste and half the chopped garlic. Fry gently for 1 more minute until smelling fragrant. Remove the pan from the heat. Stir in the yoghurt, coconut milk and almonds. Return the pan to a low heat. Pop on a lid and simmer gently for 15 minutes, stirring once or twice. While the korma cooks, rinse the rice. Tip it into a pan, add a generous pinch of salt and cover with boiling water from the kettle. Simmer for 15 minutes. Meanwhile, wash the coriander. Shake it dry and finely chop it, stalks and all. Wash and peel the carrots. Using the peeler, peel the carrots into long ribbon-like pieces. Turn your oven on to 180˚C/Gas Mark 4. Mix the remaining garlic with half of the chopped coriander and 2 tablespoons of oil. Put the frying pan on a medium-high heat. Fry 4 tortillas in the dry pan until lightly coloured on each side but still pliable, about 30 seconds per tortilla. Spread the garlic and parsley mix evenly over the tortillas and sprinkle them with salt and pepper. Roll them up into loose cigar shapes and wrap them in foil. Pop them in the oven for 6 minutes while you complete everything else. Make the carrot salad by mixing the ribbons with the black onion seeds and the remaining coriander. Season with 2 tablespoons of lemon juice and salt and pepper to taste. Check the korma and adjust the seasoning with salt. A dash or 2 of lemon juice will help enliven the dish, too. Drain the rice and fluff it up with a fork.Serve the curry and rice with the carrot salad and hot, unfurled flatbreads on the side.