Chicken and potato cider pot with green spring vegetables, mustard and tarragon 
Introduction:
This is a really versatile recipe, in which you can vary the greens and herbs used. Try chard or spinach (it’s best to blanch those before adding at the end), broad or French beans, even asparagus pieces.
Ingredients:
oil for frying e.g. sunflower or light olive 4 chicken thighs 1 large onion, peeled or use a leek, halved lengthways & very finely sliced 2 garlic cloves, peeled & crushed or finely chopped 250ml dry cider 2 bay leaves 500ml chicken or veg stock, with a little more to top up as needed 600g potatoes, scrubbed clean & cut into chunky pieces 300g spring greens, washed, de-ribbed & shredded 300g purple sprouting broccoli, trimmed & chopped into even sized pieces, not too large (use the whole thing, stalk, florets & leaves) 1 tbsp wholegrain mustard 2 tbsp double cream or crème fraîche (optional) handful of fresh tarragon leaves salt & pepper
Method:
Rub the chicken with a little oil and season with salt and pepper. Heat a large pan. Add the chicken, skin side down and fry until golden brown. Turn it over and lightly brown it, then transfer the chicken to a plate. Add the onion or leek to the same pan, with a little more oil if needed. Fry gently for 10 minutes, stirring now and then and adding a splash of water if it looks like it might catch at any point. Add the garlic and fry for 2 minutes. Add the cider, bring to the boil and let it bubble away for 2 minutes. Return the chicken to the pan, with any juices from the plate. Add the bay leaves and stock. Season. Reduce the heat, cover and simmer for 20 minutes. Add the potatoes to the chicken pot. Cover and simmer for another 10 minutes. Add the spring greens and purple sprouting broccoli and simmer for approx 10 mins, until the green veg and potatoes are tender. Keep an eye on the liquid level and top up with a little more stock if needs be, depending on your pan and the heat. Check the chicken is cooked through (simmer a little longer if needed). Add the mustard (and cream if using). Simmer for 2 minutes. Stir in the tarragon and check the seasoning just before serving.