Chicken goulash with mashed potato
Introduction:
A goulash is Hungarian comfort food. Traditionally a slow-cooked dish, we’ve adapted it to make a lighter, swifter meal. Caraway and paprika are a must, but add the cayenne to your taste; it can vary in strength, so start with a pinch, taste, and add more towards the end if you want more heat. 
Ingredients:
1 onion oil for frying 1 carrot 1 stick celery 2 romano peppers (or other if you can't find romano) 2 garlic cloves 500g potatoes 1 tsp dried oregano ½ tsp caraway seeds ½ tbsp paprika 1 tsp smoked paprika ¼ tsp cayenne - add to taste 1 tin chopped tomatoes salt & pepper 1 tbsp dried dill tops 275g diced chicken breast 50g butter splash of milk (optional) 1 lemon 200g soured cream
Method:
Peel, halve and thinly slice the onion. Heat 2 tbsp oil in a saucepan. Gently fry the onion, while you continue. Peel and finely dice the carrot. Finely dice the celery. Add both to the pan. Halve and deseed the peppers. Chop into thin 1cm strips. Add to the pan. Gently fry everything for a further 10 mins, stirring now and then. Meanwhile, peel and finely chop the garlic. Peel and roughly dice the potatoes (approx. 2-3cm). Stir the dried oregano, caraway seeds, paprika, smoked paprika and garlic into the saucepan. Add a pinch of cayenne, to your taste for heat. Add the tinned tomatoes. Half-fill the empty tomato tin with water; add that too. Season. Simmer for 20 mins while you continue. Add a dash more water if it looks like it’s thickening too much. Put the potatoes in a medium saucepan. Add a pinch of salt. Cover with plenty of water. Bring to a low boil and cook for approx. 10-12 mins, until the potatoes are soft. Season the chicken. Heat 1 tbsp of oil in a frying pan. Fry the chicken on a medium-high heat until golden. Remove the pan from the heat. When the goulash is 5 mins from being ready, stir in the dried dill tops and chicken, to finish it cooking. Drain the cooked potatoes. Leave them in the colander for 2 mins, then mash with the butter and a splash of milk (optional). Season to taste. Check the goulash seasoning. Add a squeeze of lemon juice and, if you like, an extra pinch of cayenne, to taste. Serve with the mash and soured cream.