Chicken, mushroom and cider casserole with leek and mustard mash
Introduction:
This is an easy, versatile chicken recipe: you could swap in other root veg for some or all or the potatoes – celeriac, parsnip and carrot are all good; or use a mixture of chicken thighs and drumsticks instead of whole legs. Serve with seasonal greens. 
Ingredients:
1 tbsp oil for frying, e.g. vegetable or sunflower 2 chicken legs, skin on 2 rashers unsmoked streaky bacon, cut into small pieces 1 onion, sliced 2 carrots, peeled & diced 1 garlic clove, crushed or finely chopped 250ml dry cider 200ml chicken or veg stock 2 sprigs of thyme 1 bay leaf 100g mushrooms, cleaned & sliced 500g potatoes, peeled & diced large knob of butter, plus a little extra for cooking the leeks splash of milk or cream 1 leek, cut in half lengthways then finely sliced, washed to remove any grit, then drained 1 heaped tsp wholegrain mustard salt & pepper
Method:
Preheat oven to 180°C/Gas 4. In a flame and ovenproof casserole, heat the frying oil. Add the chicken legs and brown on both sides. Remove from the pan to a plate and leave to one side. Add the bacon to the same pan, and cook for a couple of minutes to brown. Reduce the heat, add the onion and carrots and fry gently for about 5 minutes to soften. Add the garlic and fry for another 2 minutes, then add the cider, stock, thyme and bay leaf and season. Increase the heat and bring to the boil. Cover and transfer to the oven for 40 minutes. Remove from the oven, add the mushrooms and continue to cook (still with the lid on) for another 15-20 minutes. Once cooked, use a slotted spoon to remove the chicken and veg to your serving plates. Remove and discard the thyme and bay leaf. Boil the sauce to reduce a little if necessary before pouring over the chicken. To make the mash, once youíve added the mushrooms to the casserole, cook the potatoes until soft in a pan of salted, boiling water - about 10 minutes or so. Drain and put them back in the pan. Add a large knob of butter, a splash of milk or cream and salt and pepper. Mash (if you have a potato ricer, use that for the smoothest mash). While the potatoes are cooking, heat a small knob of butter in a pan. Add the leeks and cook very gently for 10-12 minutes, until they have softened. Stir in the mustard, add the leeks to the mash and stir to combine. Check the seasoning and serve with the casserole.