Chilli con chicken bowl with avocado & soured cream
Introduction:
Chilli con carne needn’t always be made with beef - chicken, turkey and venison work well, too. A bergamot lemon is a slightly different shape to a normal lemon and is best identified by smelling it; the aroma is fragrant and distinctive, more perfumed than a normal lemon.
Ingredients:
1 red onion 1 garlic clove 1 tin of red kidney beans plain oil e.g. sunflower 300g diced chicken leg 1 tsp ground cumin 1 tsp dried oregano 1 tsp sweet smoked paprika ¼ tsp cinnamon ¼ tsp chilli flakes 1 tin chopped tomatoes 150g white basmati rice 30g fresh coriander 1 avocado 1 bergamot lemon 2 tbsp soured cream salt & pepper
Method:
Put a pan of salted water on to boil. Peel the red onion, finely slice three quarters and finely dice the remaining quarter. Peel and finely chop the garlic. Drain and rinse the kidney beans. Chop the chicken pieces down into a smaller half cm dice. Heat 2 tablespoons of oil in the other pan. Fry the sliced red onion for 5 minutes until it starts to soften. Season the chicken with salt & pepper. Add it to the pan with the onions. Fry for 3 minutes or so, until nicely browned. Add the garlic and spices to the pan and cook for 1 minute, making sure they don’t stick in the pan. Tip in the tinned tomatoes and kidney beans. Bring the pan up to a simmer and cook gently for 25 minutes. While the chilli cooks, rinse the rice under cold running water in the sieve. Add it to the pan of boiling water and cook for 15 minutes, until tender. Meanwhile, wash and shake dry the coriander. Roughly chop it, stalks and all. Stone and skin the avocado. Dice the flesh into rough chunks and mix it with the diced red onion, a squeeze of lemon juice and a pinch of salt. Drain the rice when ready. Taste the chicken chilli and season with salt and pepper. Mix in half the fresh coriander. Divide the rice between two bowls. Add the chilli and top with the diced avocado, a blob of soured cream and the remaining coriander.