Chimichurri steak with roasted potatoes & purple sprouting broccoli
Introduction:
Chimichurri is a punchy Argentinian sauce usually served with all types of BBQ meat and fish. It is wonderful spooned over roast veg straight from the oven. The heat of the pan helps to take the raw edge off the garlic and release the oils from the oregano and chilli.
Ingredients:
2 sirloin steaks 600g potatoes light oil for roasting e.g. sunflower or light olive 300g purple sprouting broccoli 1 shallot 1 garlic clove 30g parsley 1 tsp dried oregano ¼ tsp chilli flakes 1 tbsp red wine vinegar olive oil salt & pepper
Method:
Start by removing the steaks from the fridge. Season well with salt and pepper on both sides. Leave at room temperature while you prepare everything else. Wash and scrub the potatoes. Cut into 2cm thick wedges, skin on. Place into a pan of cold salted water and bring to the boil. Simmer for 5-6 minutes until parboiled (partly cooked). While the potatoes come to the boil, preheat your oven to 220˚C/Gas Mark 8. Put the roasting tray in to heat up. When the potatoes are ready, drain them well and add to the roasting tray with a coating of oil and a seasoning of salt and pepper. Roast for about 25 minutes until coloured, adding the broccoli after 15 minutes (see below). While the potatoes cook, trim the broccoli into long generous spears, roughly pencil-thick in size, using as much of the stalk as you can. To make the chimichurri, peel and very finely dice 1 shallot. Peel and finely chop or crush 1 garlic clove. Wash the parsley, shake it dry and finely chop the leaves. Mix the shallot, garlic, parsley, oregano, chilli and vinegar in a bowl. Slowly whisk in 3-4 tablespoons of olive oil. Alternatively, put everything into a food processor, blend well and add the oil in a thin, steady stream. Season well to finish. 10 minutes before the potatoes are ready, add the broccoli to the roasting tin. Mix together well, making sure the broccoli is well oiled. Return to the oven for the final 10 minutes. While the broccoli roasts, put the frying pan on to heat, make sure it is very hot. Rub the steaks with a little oil on each side. Fry for 2 minutes each side. They should be brown and nicely coloured. Leave to rest for a few minutes while you finish the veg. Remove the broccoli and potatoes from the oven and add half the chimichurri sauce to the roasting tray. Mix well to coat the veg. Pile the veg between 2 plates. Top with the steak and any of its resting juices. Spoon the remaining chimichurri sauce onto the steak to serve.