Courgette & herb kuku with green alfalfa salad
Introduction:
Kuku is a Middle Eastern type of frittata, or set omelette, packed with herbs and spices. The dried spice mix is traditionally called ‘advieh’. We’ve added courgettes to this version but, if you make one again, you could use all sorts of leftover vegetables; peppers, the odd cooked potato and spinach or other greens would be good.
Ingredients:
2 courgettes oil for frying eg sunflower or light olive 1 onion 1 garlic clove 15g fresh chives 30g fresh dill 30g fresh parsley 50g salad leaves good handful alfalfa sprouts advieh spice mix: ¼ tsp turmeric ½ tsp ground cumin ½ tsp ground coriander ¼ tsp ground ginger ½ tsp dried mint 4 eggs good olive oil salt & pepper
Method:
Wash and slice the courgettes into 1cm rounds. Heat a thin layer of oil in a frying pan. Add the courgettes in a single layer (fry in batches if need be, don’t crowd the pan). Fry on each side until they have good golden brown colour to them. Transfer to a bowl or plate once cooked. Peel and finely dice the onion. Add the onion to the same frying pan, with more oil if needed. Fry very gently for 10 minutes until soft and translucent, stirring now and then to stop it catching. Add a splash of water, stir well and turn the heat a little lower if it looks like it might. While the onion cooks, peel and finely chop 1 garlic clove. Wash the chives, dill and parsley and shake them dry. Chop them reasonably finely. Wash the salad leaves and half the pack of alfalfa. Once the onions have softened, add the garlic and advieh spice mix. Fry, stirring, for 1 minute. Remove the pan from the heat for a moment while you whisk the eggs in a bowl and put your grill on to a medium heat. Season the egg mixture with salt and pepper and stir in the onion and spices from the pan, the courgettes, chopped parsley, dill and chives. Pour the mixture back into the pan, gently tipping the pan from side to side to even it out. Cook on a low heat for about 4-5 minutes, until just set on the bottom. Finish under the grill until just set all the way through (test by gently tipping it sideways – no runny egg should appear). Leave it for 5 minutes. Toss the salad leaves and alfalfa together. Cut the courgette kuku into wedges, and serve with the salad leaves, drizzled with a little good olive oil or vinaigrette if you have any.