Courgette & sheep cheese pasta with gremolata
Introduction:
Given a low heat and a little time, courgettes collapse into a chunky mass, good for whizzing into soups or piling on toast. Here they’re combined with sheep’s cheese and a splash of water to create a simple, creamy sauce. Gremolata is a vibrant Italian garnish with three easy ingredients; parsley, lemon zest and garlic. Preserved lemons add a twist here. You only need the rind, as the flesh is bitter when preserved. The rind is sweeter and saltier than fresh lemons; add a little, taste, then add more if desired. 
Ingredients:
2 courgettes oil for frying 1 teaspoon chilli flakes – add to taste salt & pepper 15g parsley 1 piece preserved lemon 1 garlic clove 200g trenne pasta (or your preferred pasta shape) 100g Sussex Slipcote cheese or other soft, light sheep cheese
Method:
Wash and thinly slice the courgettes into rounds, no larger than ½-cm thick. Heat 1 tbsp oil in a saucepan over a low heat. Add the courgettes and cover with a lid. Cook for approx. 15-20 mins, until soft and lightly caramelised. Stir occasionally. If they look like catching at any point, add a dash of water and reduce the heat. When the courgettes have softened, add half the chilli flakes, taste, and add more if desired. Season with salt and pepper to taste. Meanwhile, put a saucepan of salted water on to boil. Wash, shake dry and finely chop the parsley leaves. Scrape away the pulpy flesh from the preserved lemon and discard it. Finely dice the rind. Peel and finely chop the garlic clove. Mix the parsley, garlic and lemon rind together. Chop until it all resembles coarse breadcrumbs. Season with salt and pepper. This is your gremolata. Tip the pasta into the boiling water. Cook for 8-10 mins, until tender. Place a colander over a bowl and drain the pasta (you want to save the starchy pasta water). Crumble half the Sussex Slipcote cheese into the courgettes. Stir in the pasta. Warm over a low heat, adding 1-2 tbsp pasta water, enough to create a silky sauce. Divide between 2 bowls. Top with extra crumbled cheese if desired, and the gremolata.