Courgette ribbon salad with kofta, yoghurt and cumin flatbread and za’atar labneh
Introduction:
This sounds like a lot of ingredients, but each step is easy to make. Za’atar is a Middle Eastern dried spice blend. This recipe makes more than you need, but you can keep the rest in an airtight container and use to sprinkle over roasted veg, chicken or salads. It can also contain sumac, a zesty powder; add 1 tsp if you can find it. Prepare the labneh, za’atar and flatbread dough in advance. Cook the flatbread when you’re almost ready to eat, or make and reheat in the oven.You could use shop bought pitta, naan or tortilla wraps instead.
Ingredients:
for the labneh: large square of muslin 450g pot Greek yoghurt ¼ tsp sea salt for the flatbread: 350g self-raising flour 1 heaped tsp fine sea salt 1 heaped tsp baking powder 2 tsp cumin seeds 350g plain yoghurt for the za’atar: 2 tbsp sesame seeds 2 tbsp dried marjoram 2 tbsp dried thyme 2 tbsp dried oregano 2 tsp fine sea salt for the kofta & courgette ribbon salad: 2 packs Riverford kofta 4 courgettes handful mint & dill, chopped olive oil 1 lemon salt & pepper
Method:
To make the labneh: put a square of muslin in a colander over a saucepan, with plenty overhanging. Stir the salt into the yoghurt pot, then spoon into the muslin. Gather up the ends of the muslin and twist to form a parcel. Chill in the fridge labneh overnight or for about 12 hours, giving the muslin a gentle squeeze a few times if you can, to help the yogurt strain. Lift out the muslin and transfer to a bowl. It will have firmed up. Discard the strained liquid in the pan. To make the flatbreads: stir the flour, salt, baking powder and cumin together in a large bowl. Knead in the yogurt to form a smooth sticky dough. Cover and leave to rest for 1 hour. Give a little extra knead, then divide into 8 equal pieces. With a floured board and rolling pin, roll out a piece to a thin, rough circle the size of a large side plate. Heat a non-stick frying pan. Dry fry the flatbread for a few minutes on each side, so it starts to colour in patches and puff up. Repeat with the other flatbreads. To make the za’atar: Gently heat the sesame seeds in a frying pan until golden. Remove from the heat. Put half in a pestle and mortar and pound with the rest of the za’atar ingredients. Add the rest of the sesame seeds. For the salad, preheat oven to 180°C/Gas 4. When you’re ready to eat, fry the kofta in a little oil to brown. Transfer to a medium hot oven for 15 minutes. Cut the courgettes into very thin ribbons using a mandolin or good veg peeler. Cut each ribbon lengthways into 3 strips. Toss in the herbs and just enough good olive oil to coat. Season with salt and pepper and a squeeze of lemon to taste. Sprinkle some of the za’atar over the labneh and drizzle over a little good olive oil. Spread some onto the flatbreads, top with a few kofta, a handful of courgettes and an extra sprinkling of za’atar.