Courgette & lentil bake
Introduction:
Like pasta sheets in a lasagne, slices of courgette separate a protein-enriched tomato sauce. Depending on the size and shape of your dish, you may need to do a little patchwork with the courgette slices so they completely cover each layer of lentils. Instead of a standard white sauce, we’ve opted for a rich ricotta topping. If you have the time, allow the bake to sit for 10 minutes or so before tucking in; the topping sets and firms up a little as it cools.
Ingredients:
2 courgettes oil for frying e.g. sunflower or light olive 1 onion 2 garlic cloves 100ml red wine 1 tin lentils 1 tin tomatoes 1 tbsp tomato purée ½ tbsp dried oregano ½ tsp cinnamon 1 tsp dried mint 1 tsp bouillon powder salt & pepper 150g ricotta cheese 1 egg 25g Italian-style hard cheese, grated 200ml milk 50g salad leaves olive oil
Method:
Wash and trim the courgettes. Slice lengthways into long strips, approx. 3mm thick. Heat 1 tbsp oil in a frying pan. Add as many strips as you can in a single layer. Cook for approx. 1 min on each side, until lightly coloured. Transfer to a plate. Repeat until you’ve cooked all the courgettes. Keep to one side. Preheat the oven to 200˚C/Gas 6. Peel and finely chop the onion. Add the onion to a saucepan with 1 tbsp oil. Cook over a low medium heat for 5-6 mins, until softened. Stir occasionally. Meanwhile, peel and finely chop 2 garlic cloves. Add the garlic and wine to the onion. Cook for 1-2 mins, to cook off some alcohol. Drain and rinse the lentils in a sieve. To the onion pan add the lentils, tinned tomatoes, tomato purée, dried oregano, cinnamon, dried mint, bouillon powder and 100ml water. Season and simmer over a medium heat for 5-6 mins. Meanwhile, mix the ricotta and egg in a bowl until smooth. Add the milk. Season well with salt and pepper. Taste the lentils and adjust the seasoning. Spread a layer in the bottom of a baking dish. Cover with a single layer of courgette slices. Repeat this process until the courgettes and lentil mix have been used up, finishing with a layer of courgettes. Top with the ricotta mix. Scatter over the Italian cheese. Bake for approx. 20-25 mins, until golden. Meanwhile, wash and dry the salad leaves. Dress simply with a little olive oil, salt and pepper. Allow the bake to cool slightly (if you have time) before serving with the salad.