Cumin roasted vegetables with wild rice & tahini
Introduction:
Nutty red rice, cumin roasted vegetables and tahini dressing provide a bright and nourishing Middle Eastern-inspired plateful. Red rice keeps its colour when cooked and is richer in nutrients than white rice, it also has a pleasing bite to it.
Ingredients:
150g red rice ½ tsp cardamom pods 25g butter salt & pepper 40g sultanas 2 carrots 1 red onion 125g cherry tomatoes oil for roasting e.g. sunflower or light olive ½ tbsp cumin ½ tsp allspice 50g watercress or rocket 1 garlic clove 1 lemon 2 tbsp tahini 20g pistachios
Method:
Preheat your oven to 190˚C/Gas 5. Put a kettle on to boil. Rinse the rice. Bash the cardamom pods to split them open. Heat the butter in a saucepan over a medium heat. When it’s foaming, add the cardamom pods. Stir for 30 secs - 1 min, until fragrant. Stir in the rice. Cover with 500ml boiling water. Add a pinch of salt. Return to the boil then reduce to a simmer. Cover with a lid and cook on a low heat for 25-30 mins, until most of the water has been absorbed, then turn off the heat and set aside. Meanwhile, put the sultanas in a measuring jug or bowl and cover with boiled water. Leave to soak. Peel and halve the carrots, lengthways. Cut each half into 2-3cm angled pieces. Peel the onion and cut into 8-10 wedges. Wash and halve the tomatoes. Spread the carrots and onion onto a roasting tray. Lightly coat in a little oil, the cumin and allspice. Season. Roast for 25 mins, stirring in the tomatoes halfway through. Meanwhile, wash and dry the watercress or rocket. Peel and finely chop 1 garlic clove. Juice the lemon. Put the tahini in a bowl. Stir in half the garlic and 1 tbsp lemon juice. Gradually whisk in cold water until you reach a pouring consistency, approx. 3 tbsp. Season with salt and add more garlic and lemon, all to taste. Drain the sultanas. Roughly chop them with the pistachios. Drain off any excess water from the rice. Remove the cardamom. Mix the sultanas, pistachios, rice and watercress into the roasted vegetables. Season to taste. Divide between 2 plates. Drizzle over the tahini dressing to serve.