Curried parsnip quinoa with apple & toasted hazelnuts
Introduction:
A healthy and nutritious one-pot dish, easy on the washing up! Quinoa is packed with protein but does need flavour added, so it’s ideal for curries.
Ingredients:
400g parsnips 1 leek oil for frying, e.g. sunflower or light olive 150g tricolore quinoa 50g fresh ginger 1 garlic clove 1 tbsp curry powder 1 tsp cardamom seeds 1 tin coconut milk 1 apple 150ml yoghurt 1 tsp dried mint 1 lime 50g toasted hazelnuts 25g toasted coconut chips ¼ tsp chilli flakes – add to your own preference for heat salt & pepper
Method:
Wash, peel and chop the parsnips into small 2cm dice. Trim the top and bottom of the leek, cut in half lengthways, then into thin shreds. Wash well to remove any grit. Heat 2 tablespoons of oil in a large, deep frying pan or large, wide saucepan. Add the parsnips and fry, stirring now and then, until nicely coloured. Transfer them to a plate. Add the leek to the same pan. Gently fry, stirring often, until soft and translucent, about 10 minutes. Add a splash of water if it looks like catching. Meanwhile, peel and finely grate enough ginger so you have 1 tablespoon worth. Peel and finely chop or crush 1 garlic clove. Rinse the quinoa in a sieve. After 10 minutes of cooking, add the ginger, garlic, curry powder (all or half, depending on your preference for spice) and quinoa to the leek. Stir for 2 minutes. Add the coconut milk and cardamom pods (the coconut milk can separate in the tin, give it a little stir if needs be). Refill two thirds of the coconut milk tin with water and add to the quinoa. Bring up to a low simmering boil. Cook for 5 minutes, then add the parsnips and cook for a further 8-10 minutes, until both parsnips and quinoa are tender (the quinoa seeds pop open once done). Stir the quinoa mixture now and then as it cooks. Keep an eye on the liquid level and top up with a little water if needs be. By the end of cooking you want a risotto-like consistency. Meanwhile, coarsely grate the apple. Mix with the pot of yoghurt and dried mint. Add a pinch of salt and squeeze in the juice from half the lime. Roughly chop the hazelnuts (not too small, half’s and quarter’s). Once the quinoa and parsnips are cooked, add salt and pepper to taste. Divide between 2 serving bowls, with the apple and lime yoghurt. Sprinkle with the toasted hazelnuts, coconut chips and a little of the chilli flakes (if you don’t like hot food, leave out or add a sprinkling to taste). Watch out for the cardamom pods as you eat!