Curried broccoli quinoa
Introduction:
This is a protein-rich dish using curried quinoa topped with soft-boiled eggs. Peeling the eggs while they’re still warm makes it a bit easier. You could also replace the broccoli with spinach, kale, spring greens or broad beans when in season.
Ingredients:
1 leek oil for frying 1 garlic clove 1 small piece ginger 1 chilli 1 head broccoli ½ tsp cardamom pods 150g white quinoa 1 tbsp curry powder ½ tsp cumin powder, 1 tsp mustard seeds 1 tbsp dried coriander leaves 1 tsp bouillon powder salt & pepper 20g flaked almonds 2 eggs 1 lemon 2 tbsp tomato & onion chutney
Method:
Boil a kettle. Trim the leek, halve lengthways and finely slice. Wash well to remove any grit. Heat 1 tbsp of oil in a medium saucepan. Gently fry the leek, stirring now and then, while you continue. Add a splash of water if it looks like catching. Meanwhile, peel and finely grate the garlic and ginger. Deseed and finely chop the chilli. Cut the broccoli into bitesized florets. Bash the cardamom pods with the back of your knife, so they split open a little. Rinse the quinoa in a sieve. Add the garlic, ginger, cardamom, curry powder, cumin powder, mustard seeds, dried coriander leaves and chilli, to your taste in heat (save a little for garnish), to the leek. Stir for 30 secs. Add the quinoa, bouillon and 450ml of boiled water. Season. Bring to a low boil. Cook for 13-14 mins, stirring often, until the quinoa is tender, and the water absorbed. Add a splash more water if it looks like drying out. While the quinoa cooks, gently toast the flaked almonds for 2-3 mins in a large saucepan, until lightly golden. Transfer to a plate. Reboil the kettle. Pour plenty of boiled water into the empty large saucepan. Be careful as it will splutter. Bring to a low boil. Gently lower in the eggs. Boil for 4 mins. Add the broccoli. Cook for 3-4 mins more, until the broccoli is just tender. When cooked, remove the broccoli with a spoon and set aside on a plate. Run the eggs under cold water until cool enough to handle, then carefully peel and quarter them. Once the quinoa is ready, stir in the broccoli. Season and add lemon juice to taste. Serve with the eggs, almonds, chutney and more chilli, if you like.