Curried hash with asparagus & eggs
Introduction:
Simple things are often the best; a potato hash can’t be beaten for a super-fast, sustaining supper. New potatoes are a good seasonal match for the asparagus, and Jersey Royals will ramp it up to spectacular. We challenge you to find more tasty and brighter yellow yolks than our organic eggs anywhere (unless perhaps you have your own chickens!). 
Ingredients:
500g potatoes (scrubbed) 1 lemon Oil for frying 200g greens (try spinach, chard, or summer greens - leaves stripped from their stalks) 125g spring or new season's bunched onion, thinly sliced 1 garlic clove, finely chopped 2 tbsp curry powder - to taste 1 tsp black mustard seeds 200g asparagus Bunch of coriander, roughly chopped 4 eggs 1/2 tsp black onion seeds Salt & pepper
Method:
Put the potatoes in a pan of cold water, with a good pinch or two of salt. Add a squeeze of lemon juice. Bring to the boil then cook for approx. 12-15 mins, until tender. Drain and leave them to cool enough to handle, then chop into 3-4cm chunks. Preheat your oven to a low temp - 150˚C/Gas 2. Put another saucepan of water on to boil for the asparagus (or use a steamer, if you prefer). Heat 1 tbsp of oil in a large frying pan. Heat the greens on a medium heat until just wilted, (if using spring or summer greens they may need a splash of water to help them along), then transfer to a plate. Add 1 tbsp more oil to the frying pan. Fry the onions for 2 mins, then add a splash more oil, the garlic, curry powder to your taste for heat and mustard seeds. Fry for 1 min. Add the potatoes and stir-fry on a medium-high heat for 2 mins. Gently mix in the greens and three-quarters of the coriander. Season and add lemon juice to taste. Transfer to serving plates and keep them warm in the oven. Wipe, or wash out, the frying pan. Heat a good layer of oil in the pan, enough to cover the base well. Crack in and fry the eggs to your liking, 2-3 mins or so. At the same time, boil or steam the asparagus for 2-3 mins, until just tender. Drain the asparagus. Serve on the potato hash, with the eggs, sprinkled with onion seeds and remaining coriander.