Curried beef pie with mixed root mash, tarka leeks & greens
Introduction:
A pie sounds like it’s a slow-cooked affair, but this warming, curried beef pie relies on using lean mince so there’s not much fat to render down, and it’s topped with a quick to prepare root veg mash. We’ve added some healthy greens, tossed with an Indian-style tarka, a spicy seasoning of aromatic seeds and chilli flakes.
Ingredients:
1 onion oil for frying, e.g. vegetable or sunflower piece of fresh ginger 2 carrots 1 potato ¼ swede 1 large or 2 small garlic cloves 300g beef mince ½ leek 150g spring greens 1 tbsp curry powder 250ml chicken stock 25g butter splash milk 1 tsp black mustard seeds ¼ tsp cumin seeds ¼ tsp chilli flakes – add to taste salt & pepper
Method:
Peel and finely dice the onion. Heat 1 tablespoon of oil in a medium pan. Add the onion and fry on a low heat, stirring now and then, for 10 minutes. Add a splash of water if it looks like catching. While the onion cooks, put a large pan of water on to boil. Finely grate enough ginger so you have a good 1 teaspoon worth (there’s no need to peel it). Peel and chop the carrots, potato and quarter of the swede into 2cm chunks. Peel and very finely slice 1 large or 2 small garlic cloves (this is for the tarka later, so keep it separate). Once the onion has cooked for 10 minutes, add the beef mince and ginger. Increase the heat a little and stir-fry, breaking up larger chunks of mince, until the beef has lost all its pink colour, about 5 minutes. While it cooks, halve the leek (you only need half, save the rest). Cut lengthways in half, finely shred. Wash well. Break up the spring green leaves, wash well, cut out the central ribs in a thin ’v’ shape, then lay them on top of each other, roll into a cylinder and finely shred. Add the curry powder and the chicken stock to the beef. Bring up to a low, simmering boil and cook for 15 minutes, until the liquid has reduced and thickened slightly, but still has a sloppy consistency. If you do reduce it too much, you have a little stock spare to top up, or add a splash of water. Meanwhile, add the carrots, potato and swede to the pan of boiling water. Cook for about 10-15 minutes, until tender. Drain, leave in the colander for 2 minutes to let excess moisture evaporate, then mash with the butter (if you have any, you could add a splash of milk too). Season to taste. Keep to one side. As the root veg boil, heat 1 tablespoon of oil in a large frying pan. Add the leeks. Stir-fry on a low to medium heat for 5 minutes. Add the spring greens and stir-fry until just wilted, 3-4 minutes. Transfer to a bowl or plate. When the beef has cooked, season to taste and spoon into a baking dish. Top with the mash, smoothing it over with your spoon to cover the meat, then spike it up with a fork. Heat your grill to medium. Grill the pie until the top has crisped up a little, about 5 minutes. Meanwhile, add 1 tablespoon of oil to the frying pan. Add the sliced garlic clove(s), mustard seeds, cumin seeds and some chilli flakes (add the chilli to your taste for heat). Stir-fry for a few seconds, until you hear the mustard seeds pop. Don’t let the garlic get darker than a light golden colour. Add the greens back to the pan and toss together to warm through. Serve the greens with the pie.