Fennel and mushroom lasagne
Introduction:
Slow-braised fennel lends a lovely sweetness to this vegetarian lasagne, so don't stint on the cooking time. If you want to make this for a midweek supper, get ahead by cooking the sauce the night before, then assemble the lasagne and finish the cooking the next evening. This freezes well. 
Ingredients:
3 tbsp olive oil 1 large fennel bulb, finely chopped, inner core removed & discarded 100g mushrooms, cleaned & sliced 1 onion, finely chopped 1-2 garlic cloves, finely chopped or crushed 75ml red wine ½ tsp dried oregano leaves from sprig of fresh thyme, or ½ tsp dried 400g tin chopped tomatoes 1 tbsp tomato purée 250g mozzarella, sliced (donít use the denser, very stringy stuff used on pizzas; use the softer balls) 250g ricotta 125g lasagne sheets 2 tbsp Parmesan or Pecorino, grated salt & pepper
Method:
Preheat oven to 200°C/Gas 6. In a heavy based pan, heat 2 tablespoons oil. Add the fennel and cook, stirring every now and again, on a low to medium heat for 30-40 minutes, until soft and caramel coloured. Increase the heat, add the mushrooms and cook for another 4-5 minutes until the mushrooms are soft. While the fennel is cooking, in another pan, heat 1 tablespoon oil. Add the onion and cook on a low heat for 10 minutes, until the onion is soft. Do not allow to burn. Add the garlic and cook for another minute or two. Add the wine, increase the heat and cook until the liquid has reduced by half. Add the herbs, tomatoes (add a little water too, about 50ml, swill the tin out with it to get all the tomatoes out), tomato purée and season. Simmer until the fennel and mushrooms are ready. In a baking dish, spread a little of the tomato sauce over the bottom of the dish. Add a layer of lasagne sheets, then layer the fennel mixture, mozzarella and ricotta (use a teaspoon to dot the ricotta evenly), lasagne and tomato sauce, finishing with a layer of tomato sauce. Cover with foil and bake for 20 minutes. Remove the foil, sprinkle over the Parmesan and bake for another 15-20 minutes, until the lasagne is soft and the cheese has melted.