Fragrant mutton tagine
Introduction:
This mutton tagine recipe has a long ingredients list, but you'll probably have many of them in your cupboard. Mutton is a full-flavoured, inexpensive meat much revered in North Africa. You could make the same tagine with lamb and probably knock a few minutes off the cooking time. Serve this over a heap of steaming couscous.
Ingredients:
2 tbsp olive oil 1 onion, chopped 1 tsp saffron strands 2 garlic cloves, crushed & chopped 800g diced mutton or lamb 1 tsp ground cinnamon 1 cinnamon stick 1 tsp ground turmeric 1 small red chilli, thinly sliced 300ml lamb or chicken stock 1 sweet potato, peeled & diced 75g dried apricots 75g dried prunes 2 tbsp ground almonds 1 can chickpeas, drained & rinsed juice of 1 lemon 50g flaked almonds 375g couscous 1 tbsp olive oil handful coriander or mint, chopped salt & pepper
Method:
Heat the oil in a casserole and cook the chopped onions, saffron threads and garlic over a gentle heat for 5 minutes. Turn the heat up and add the diced mutton - brown it all over - then add ground cinnamon, cinnamon stick, turmeric, and very thinly sliced chilli together with some salt, fry a further couple of minutes before pouring in the stock. Bring to simmering point then cover and cook gently for 1½ hours. By now the mutton is already tender and the aromas of the stew are mouth-wateringly good. Remove the lid and fold in the diced sweet potato, dried apricots, prunes and ground almonds (this will thicken the sauce), cover and cook for a further 15 minutes. Fold in the chickpeas, simmer for a further 5 minutes then add lemon juice and adjust seasoning if necessary. Ten minutes before the end of cooking time, dry roast the flaked almonds in a frying pan for a couple of minutes until golden. Heat 750ml of water to boiling, pour in 375g instant couscous and cook gently for 1 minute, cover and leave to stand for a further 4 minutes then add olive oil, chopped coriander - or mint - plus some seasoning to taste. Serve fragrant mutton tagine over couscous in warmed bowls and scatter with flaked almonds.