Frying pan celeriac gratin
Introduction:
Traditional gratins are usually baked in the oven for a long time, but we’re speeding things up by cooking it all in a frying pan. Seasonal celeriac, leek and juicy portobello mushrooms are tossed in a cheese and crème fraîche sauce. As it's rich, this needs nothing more than some simple shredded greens on the side.
Ingredients:
400g celeriac 1 leek 10g rosemary 2 garlic cloves 25g butter oil for frying 200g portobello mushrooms 10g plain flour 1 tsp bouillon powder 250g crème fraîche 1 tbsp Dijon mustard 50g Cheddar cheese, grated 40g Italian style hard cheese, grated 150g spring greens salt & pepper 1 lemon
Method:
Put a medium saucepan of salted water on to boil. Peel and thinly slice (no more than ½cm) the celeriac. Halve any larger pieces. Boil for 5-6 mins, until just tender to a knife tip (if it’s too soft, it will fall apart). Drain it well, then transfer to a plate. Trim the leek, halve lengthways, then cut into ½cm slices. Wash well to remove any grit. Finely chop 1 good tbsp of rosemary. Peel and finely chop the garlic. Melt the butter and ½ tbsp of oil in a large frying pan. Gently fry the leek, garlic and rosemary for 10 mins, stirring often, while you slice the mushrooms (approx. 1cm). Transfer the leek to a plate. Add 1 tbsp of oil to the same pan. Stir-fry the mushrooms on a medium-high heat for 4-5 mins, until softened (do in 2 batches if needs be). Transfer to another plate. Remove the pan from the heat. Preheat your grill to medium-high. Put the frying pan back on the heat. Stir in the leek, flour, bouillon, crème fraîche, mustard, grated cheddar, ½ the Italian cheese and 250ml of boiled water. Stir on a low-medium heat for 2-3 mins, until the sauce thickens slightly. Season. Take the pan off the heat. Layer the mushrooms and celeriac in the pan. Gently turn them to coat in the sauce. Sprinkle over the remaining Italian cheese. Grill for 6-7 mins, until golden, while you continue. Strip the spring green leaves off their stalks. Wash them, roll them up, then thinly shred. Heat 1 tbsp of oil in the saucepan. Cook the greens on a medium heat for 3-4 mins, until wilted. Add a splash of water to help them along if needed. Season and add lemon juice to taste. Serve with the celeriac gratin.