Grilled leg of lamb with Swiss chard and anchovy gratin
Introduction:
This is a dish we often serve in the Field Kitchen: the classic combination of lamb, garlic and rosemary and the more unusual one of chard and anchovy sit very well alongside each other. Anchovy acts as a good foil to the earthy chard. These two dishes would be a lovely Easter lunch. Marinade the lamb the night before so you're ready to go on the day you want to eat it. 
Ingredients:
for the lamb 6 garlic cloves, crushed 2 tbsp chopped rosemary 3 tbsp lemon juice 4 tbsp olive oil 1 leg of lamb, weighing about 2kg, skinned, boned and butterflied (you could ask your butcher to do this) for the stock: juice of ½ lemon a splash of white wine 1 tsp sugar 1 bay leaf a sprig of thyme for the gratin: 2 bunches of Swiss chard (about 500–600g) a large knob of butter 1 onion, chopped 3 garlic cloves, crushed 6 anchovies 1 tbsp plain flour 1 tbsp Parmesan, grated salt & pepper
Method:
First prepare the lamb. Mix together the garlic, rosemary, pepper, lemon juice and olive oil to make a marinade. Place the lamb in a large dish, pour over the marinade and leave at room temperature for 8 hours or overnight, turning the meat occasionally. To make the stock, put all the ingredients in a pan with 500ml of water, bring to the boil and simmer for 20 minutes. Strain and set aside. Preheat oven to 160°C/Gas 3. To make the gratin, separate the chard leaves from the stalks and blanch them in a large pan of boiling salted water for 1 minute. Drain well, refresh under cold running water, then squeeze out excess water. Set aside. Cut the chard stalks across into 5mm strips. Bring the stock to the boil, add the chard stalks and simmer gently for 5 minutes. Drain the stalks and set aside, saving the stock for later. Heat the butter in a pan, add the onion and cook gently for 15 minutes, until soft. Add the garlic and cook for a few more minutes. Remove from the heat and add the anchovies, stirring until they dissolve into the mixture. Return to the heat and stir in the flour to make a roux. Cook very gently for 5 minutes. Slowly stir in the reserved chard stock until you have a thick sauce. Simmer for about 5 minutes. Stir the chard stalks and leaves into the sauce, together with the grated Parmesan and some black pepper. Transfer the mixture to a gratin dish and bake for about 20 minutes, until golden. Cover with foil and a tea towel to keep warm while you cook the lamb. Remove the lamb from the marinade. Increase oven heat to 220°C/Gas 7. Put the lamb on a roasting tray and cook in the oven for 15 minutes, then turn down the oven to 180°C/Gas Mark 4 and cook for a further 10-15, depending on how pink you like your lamb. Leave to rest for about 10 minutes, then serve with the gratin.