Crispy halloumi with roast tomato maftoul
Introduction:
This recipe is inspired by Saganaki; a traditional Greek appetiser of fried cheese. Halloumi is coated in polenta and herbs with a drizzle of honey, to give a moreish crispy coating. Not all the sesame and thyme coating will stick to the cheese but, don’t worry, the crispy honeyed bits left in the pan add a satisfying bit of crunch.
Ingredients:
250g cherry tomatoes oil for roasting salt & pepper 150g maftoul 1 tsp bouillon powder 60g green olives 1 garlic clove 15g parsley 1 egg 3 tbsp polenta 150g halloumi 1 lemon 1 tbsp honey 1 tsp dried thyme 1 tbsp sesame seeds 50g watercress
Method:
Preheat your oven to 200˚C/Gas 6. Put a kettle on to boil. Halve the tomatoes and place cut-side up on a roasting tray. Drizzle with oil and season with salt and pepper. Roast for approx. 20 mins, until slightly charred around the edges. Meanwhile, put the maftoul and bouillon in a saucepan. Add 500ml boiled water and bring to a gentle simmer. Cook for 12-15 mins, until tender and most of the liquid is absorbed. Keep to one side. While the maftoul cooks, slice the olives. Peel and finely chop the garlic. Finely chop the parsley, including the stalks if they’re not too thick. In a shallow bowl, whisk the egg with 1 tbsp water. Put the polenta on a plate. Cut the halloumi into 2cm cubes. Dip the halloumi cubes in the egg, then the polenta. Set aside. Heat a frying pan. Halve the lemon. Place in the frying pan, cut-sides down. Cook for 1-2 mins, without moving them, until charred. Set aside. Heat a good drizzle of oil in the same pan. Fry the halloumi for approx. 1-2 mins each side, until golden. Add the honey, thyme and sesame seeds, turning the cubes to coat. Once the tomatoes are ready, add the garlic, maftoul, olives, parsley, watercress and the juice from half the lemon to the tray. Mix, adding a drizzle more oil, a turn of pepper and more lemon juice, if you like. Divide the maftoul between 2 plates. Top with the halloumi and any honeyed sesame bits from the pan.