Hainanese pork rice
Introduction:
This Malaysian pork and rice dish is loaded with flavour and very comforting. Use chillies that aren't too hot, or try sriracha sauce instead. This is at its very best eaten with penang acar, a tangy vegetable relish, and sticks or slices of cucumber. 
Ingredients:
for the pork: 150g fresh ginger, peeled & thinly sliced 2 bunches spring onions (including green tops) sliced into 2 cm pieces 1 kg joint of lean pork for the rice: 3 garlic cloves 35g unsalted butter 300g jasmine or basmati rice for the soya condiment: 100 ml dark soy sauce 1 tbsp toasted groundnut oil 1 tsp sesame seeds, toasted (watch them like a hawk, they burn very quickly!) for the chilli sauce: 4 fresh red chillies, deseeded 20g fresh ginger, peeled 1 red pepper, roughly chopped 4 garlic cloves, 2 tsp sugar 2 tbsp groundnut oil 1 tbsp lime juice ½ tsp fish sauce for the garnish: 1 large cucumber, peeled halved & slices diagonally into half moons 4 spring onions 2 tbsp coriander leaves salt & pepper
Method:
For the pork: Fill a large pot with cold water and add the sliced ginger, spring onions and pork joint. Bring slowly to the boil and gently simmer for 30 minutes. Remove from the heat and leave, lid still on, to cool. To cook the rice, gently fry the garlic in the butter for a few minutes and add the rice. Stir until well coated. Add 600ml of stock from the pork pot. Season and bring to the boil. Stir, cover and cook on a minimum heat (or a 120ºC/Gas ½ oven) for 20 minutes. Make the soya condiment by mix all the ingredients together. To make the chilli sauce whiz together all the ingredients. Traditionally the rice should be pushed into a pudding bowl and turned out into a mound. Carve the pork, arrange it around the rice and moisten with a few spoonfuls of the soya condiment mix. Garnish with the cucumber, spring onions and coriander leaves. Serve the chilli sauce and remaining soya condiment in small bowls. The remaining broth can be skimmed, seasoned and served as a clear soup.