Green herb & mozzarella tortilla with a quinoa, olive, tomato & courgette salad
Introduction:
Set omelettes (tortilla in Spain, frittata in Italy), are a healthy and quick supper to make. Ideal for mid-week cooking. This one is packed with nutritious herbs and topped with a British made buffalo mozzarella.
Ingredients:
1 large baking-sized potato 25g quinoa bag parsley bag chervil 100g watercress 125g cherry tomatoes pack sun-dried tomatoes 1 courgette pot olives 1 lemon olive oil 4 eggs 1 tbsp dried dill 25g Parmesan, grated 25g butter oil for frying e.g. sunflower or light olive 1 pack mozzarella salt & pepper
Method:
Boil a kettle of water. Wash the potato and slice into 1cm rounds, keeping the skin on. Transfer to a saucepan. Rinse the quinoa in a sieve. Transfer to a separate saucepan. Cover both the potato and quinoa with boiled water. Bring both pans to the boil. Cook the potatoes for about 5-6 minutes, until just tender, and the quinoa for 14-15 minutes, until the seeds pop open. Drain both once done. Meanwhile, wash the parsley and chervil. Shake or pat them dry with kitchen paper. Chop them all up, quite finely. Wash the watercress and shake or spin it dry. Finely dice the tomatoes, sun-dried tomatoes and courgettes. Mix in a bowl with the olives. Add a squeeze of lemon juice (about quarter of the lemon) and a glug of olive oil. Season with salt and pepper. Whisk the eggs in a bowl. Season with salt and pepper. Stir in the chopped herbs, the dried dill and Parmesan. Once the potatoes are drained, leave them to cool slightly for around 5 minutes. Once cooled, gently toss them with the egg mix (it doesn’t matter if the odd bit breaks up). Melt the butter with a splash of oil in a frying pan. Add the watercress. Stir until just wilted. Mix it into the egg and potato mixture. Put your grill on to a medium heat ready for step 9. Add a splash more oil to the frying pan. Add the egg and vegetable mixture, tipping the pan from side to side to even it out. Cook on the hob on a low heat until the bottom half is set, taking care it doesn’t burn. Remove from the heat and break the mozzarella over the top. Transfer to a medium grill and cook until the top is just set and the mozzarella melted. Mix the drained quinoa with the tomato and courgette mixture. Check the seasoning. Serve with the tortilla, cut into wedges.