Herb roasted pork with mustard breadcrumbs
Introduction:
For best results get ahead of the game - remove the rind and marinade the joint the night before. The mustard breadcrumbs will keep for a few weeks in a sealed plastic container so, if you have the bread, make double the amount – they give a bit of texture and zing to all manner of dishes. 
Ingredients:
3 tbsp Dijon mustard 2 tbsp parsley, chopped 1 tbsp thyme leaves, chopped 4 garlic cloves, smashed 2 tbsp olive oil 650ml pork joint, rind removed 2 tbsp butter 50ml veg or chicken stock salt & pepper for the mustard breadcrumbs: 200ml in volume of fresh breadcrumbs 2 tbsp butter 1 tbsp Dijon mustard 1 tsp thyme leaves, chopped 1 tsp parsley, chopped
Method:
Mix the mustard, herbs, garlic and olive oil together and scrape into a plastic freezer bag. Add the rindless pork and make sure it is well coated. Leave for at least 4 hours at room temperature or overnight in the fridge. Preheat oven to 220°C/Gas Mark 7. If chilled, return the pork to room temperature, remove from the marinade and place on a rack in a roasting tray or, even better, on a leek, halved lengthways, in the roasting tray. Give the pork an initial 20 minute blast, then switch the oven down to 160°C/Gas Mark 3, spoon the marinade over the meat, top with half the butter and cook until done, about 30 minutes. Meanwhile, make the mustard breadcrumbs: In a small pan, heat the butter until it starts to foam and add the mustard and herbs. Mix well with the breadcrumbs and spread out on a baking sheet. Place the tray in the oven with the pork and bake until evenly golden brown and crisp (you will have to shake them a couple of times), then keep to one side. Back to the pork: Carefully remove it from the oven and leave to rest under a piece of foil for 10 minutes. Deglaze the roasting pan (leave the leek if you used it) with th veg or chicken stock. Season and swirl in the other half of the butter and add any juices from the resting pork. Slice the pork to serve and sprinkle with breadcrumbs, or put the breadcrumbs in a bowl as a condiment.