Italian pulled pork buns with tomatoes, green herb mayo & roasted potatoes
Introduction:
Good pulled pork takes hours in a low oven..You can buy it pre-cooked and already pulled - easier for a quick mid-week meal. 
Ingredients:
2 tbsp capers 600g potatoes 4 tomatoes 1 tbsp balsamic vinegar olive oil 30g parsley 1 large or 2 small gherkins ½ garlic clove 2 tsp Dijon mustard 50g mayonnaise 50g rocket 1 pack Italian pulled pork 2 wholemeal bread rolls salt & pepper
Method:
Preheat oven to 220˚C/Gas Mark 8. Put the capers in a cup of cold water to purge some of the salt. Wash the potatoes and give them a light scrub. Cut them into chunky wedges. Place them in the saucepan and cover with cold, salted water. Bring the potatoes to the boil and cook for 8-10 minutes until just tender. While the potatoes cook, cut the tomatoes in ½. Place them cut side up in a roasting tray. Shake over the balsamic vinegar and a good drizzle of olive oil. Season with salt and pepper. When the potatoes are cooked, drain them thoroughly. Place them in the other roasting tray. Toss them with oil and plenty of salt and pepper. Place the potatoes and tomatoes into the oven to roast. Put the potatoes on the top shelf and the tomatoes on a lower shelf. Bake them for 25-30 minutes. Turning the potatoes half way through. While they roast, make your green herb mayo. Wash the parsley and shake it dry. Remove the leaves and chop them finely. Drain the capers and chop them and the gherkins, coarsely. Peel 1 garlic clove and finely chop or crush half of it. Mix the mustard, parsley, capers, gherkins and the chopped garlic with the mayonnaise. Wash and dry the rocket. 5 minutes before the tomatoes and potatoes are cooked, place the pulled pork into the roasting tray next to the tomatoes. Remove the roasting trays from the oven. Split open the buns and pop them in the oven for 2-3 minutes to warm through. Slather the green mayo into the buns. Squash a few tomatoes in too. Pile in the hot pulled pork and a finale of rocket leaves. Serve with the roasted spuds and any remaining tomatoes and rocket on the side.