Kale and mushroom lasagne
Introduction:
This rich vegetarian lasagne is a very good way of feeding a big group. It takes a few steps to get it in the oven, but once it's there dinner requires no further attention – except, perhaps, tossing together a green salad. This lasagne freezes well both before and after baking. 
Ingredients:
10g dried porcini mushrooms oil for frying e.g. sunflower or light olive 1 large onion, finely chopped 4 garlic cloves, finely chopped 4-6 fresh sage leaves, depending on size (sage is quite strong, so add sparingly) leaves from 2 sprigs fresh thyme, or 1 tsp dried 400g mushrooms, chopped small 50g butter 50g plain flour 700ml milk 1 tbsp Dijon mustard 300g kale leaves, leaves stripped from their stalks 9-10 sheets lasagne (about 180-200g) 25 Parmesan or Pecorino, finely grated salt & pepper
Method:
Preheat oven to 180°C/Gas 4. Put the porcini in a heatproof bowl and pour in 100ml hot water. Leave to stand. Heat 2 tablespoons of oil in large frying pan. Add the onion and fry on a low heat for 8 minutes, until soft and translucent, stirring now and then. Add the garlic, sage, thyme leaves and mushrooms. Fry, stirring constantly, for 3 minutes. Season. Turn off the heat and leave to one side. Next, make the béchamel sauce. Melt the butter in another saucepan and stir in the flour. Cook on a low heat, stirring constantly, for 2 minutes. Remove from the heat and add about ¼ of the milk. Whisk well into a smooth paste, then gradually add the rest of the milk, whisking all the time. Return to the heat and heat gradually, stirring until the sauce thickens. Remove from the heat and stir in the mustard. Boil the kale for 4 minutes. Drain and refresh in a bowl of cold water, then drain again. Squeeze out any water with your hands, then finely chop the leaves. Stir into the mushrooms, with the soaked porcini (if any are very large, chop them into small pieces first) and any liquid in the bowl. Spread a thin layer of béchamel on the bottom of a baking/gratin dish. Add a layer of lasagne (about 3 sheets), then half the mushroom mixture, then another layer of lasagne, half the béchamel and repeat using up the rest of the mushroom mixture, lasagne and finish with the rest of the béchamel. Sprinkle over the grated cheese. Bake for about 35-40 minutes, until the top is turning golden and the pasta is cooked.