Kumquat & baked ricotta pancakes
Introduction:
Kumquats are small, sharp fruits. They can be eaten raw, skin and all, or cooked down with a little sugar to temper the sour taste. The skins soften but keep a faint bite, not unlike the shreds in marmalade. The sweetness is just enough, but not so much as to make it jam-like. You can make this recipe festive with the addition of 2 cloves and a star anise, if it is that time of year. The trick to achieving a thin pancake is to tip the pan in a swift, steady roll as soon as the batter hits the pan. You should be able to guide and swirl the batter into an even layer. The first attempt always ends up as a sacrifice to the god of pancakes. 
Ingredients:
Kumquat compote 400g kumquats 220g sugar 20g fresh ginger, sliced 1 cinnamon stick 50ml orange liqueur or sweet dessert wine Pancakes 100g plain flour pinch of salt 1 egg & 1 extra egg yolk 300ml whole milk 40g butter Baked ricotta 250g firm ricotta 2 eggs, yolk and whites divided 3 tbsp (60g) honey ½ tsp vanilla essence
Method:
Cut the kumquats into quarters. Remove and discard the seeds. Place the fruit in a saucepan with the sugar, ginger, cinnamon and liqueur. Add 100ml of water and bring it up to a simmer. Cook for 30 minutes, until the fruit is soft and the liquid syrupy. You can make this well in advance if you like; it will keep in the fridge for a week. While the compote cooks, make the pancake batter. Sift the flour into a bowl with a pinch of salt. Add the egg and the extra yolk. Whisk in the milk, a little at a time, until you have a smooth batter. Leave to rest for 30 minutes. Turn your oven to 170˚C/Gas 5. Beat the ricotta, egg yolks, honey and vanilla together in a bowl. In a separate bowl, whisk the egg whites until they form stiff peaks. Gently fold the egg whites into the ricotta until just incorporated. Spoon the mix in to 1 large or 4 small ramakins (you could use cupcake or muffin tins instead). Bake for 20 minutes, until risen and starting to colour on the top. Remove from the oven a few minutes early if you’ve divided the mix into 4. Melt the butter in a frying pan and tip it into the pancake batter. Whisk it all together. Return the pan to the heat, lightly oil it and cook the pancakes one at a time. (see our basic pancake recipe for more detailed instructions on cooking). This should make 8-12 pancakes. Serve each person a couple of pancakes, topped with a scoop of ricotta and a large spoonful of compote.