Grilled lamb steaks with purple sprouting broccoli and anchovy gratin
Introduction:
This is a brilliant Sunday lunch dish, a wonderful alternative to a traditional roast. 
Ingredients:
4 garlic cloves, crushed 1 tbsp rosemary, chopped 2 tbsp lemon juice 3 tbsp olive oil 8 lamb steaks ½ lemon, juiced 500g purple sprouting broccoli 500ml veg stock (stir 1 tsp of stock powder into the water after blanching the purple sprouting broccoli) 1 sprig thyme 1 bay leaf splash white wine 50g butter 1 onion, chopped 3 garlic cloves, crushed 6 anchovies 1 tbsp plain flour 1 tbsp Parmesan, grated
Method:
Mix together the garlic, rosemary, pepper, lemon juice and olive oil to make a marinade. Place the lamb in a large dish, pour over the marinade and leave at room temperature for 8 hours or overnight, turning the meat occasionally. Preheat oven to 160°C/Gas 3. To make the gratin, separate the purple sprouting broccoli stalks from the tips, chop the stalks and boil for 2 minutes, add the tips and boil for another 2 minutes. Drain well (saving the liquid), refresh under cold running water, then squeeze out excess water. Set aside. Add the veg stock powder, thyme, bay leaf and wine to the purple sprouting broccoli liquid and simmer for a few minutes. Heat the butter in a pan, add the onion and cook gently for 15 minutes, until soft. Add the garlic and cook for a few more minutes. Remove from the heat and add the anchovies, stirring until they dissolve into the mixture. Return to the heat and stir in the flour to make a roux. Cook very gently for 5 minutes then slowly stir in the veg stock until you have a thick sauce. Simmer for about 5 minutes. Stir the blanched purple sprouting broccoli into the sauce, together with the grated Parmesan and some black pepper. Transfer the mixture to a gratin dish and bake in an oven for about 20 minutes, until golden. Remove the lamb from the marinade. Preheat a ridged griddle pan or a large, heavy-based frying pan and cook the lamb for 2 minutes on each side, until browned. Transfer to a roasting tray and finish off in the oven at 200°C/Gas 6 for a few minutes, depending on how pink you like your lamb. Leave to rest for 10 minutes, then serve with the gratin.