Lamb leg steak with parsnip & almond mash & cabbage
Introduction:
Don’t be scared of the amount of garlic in the parsnip mash; by adding the cloves to the pan they poach and go soft and sweet, losing much of the raw, sulphurous pungency that has a tendency to linger. The almonds are a sweet, earthy complement but also help to add a bit more texture and heft to the dish. If you want a richer mash you can cook the parsnips in milk instead, or fold in a glug of olive oil at the end for a glossy shine.
Ingredients:
2 lamb leg steaks 1 lemon 10g rosemary 600g parsnips 2 garlic cloves 1 bay leaf ½ cabbage 25g butter oil for frying, e.g. sunflower or light olive 40g ground almonds 1 nutmeg salt & pepper
Method:
Remove the lamb steaks from the fridge. Use a peeler to remove the lemon zest in long strips. Juice the remaining lemon. Scrunch the rosemary roughly in your hands, do the same with the lemon zest. Mix the lamb steaks with half the lemon juice, the zest, rosemary and a generous seasoning of salt and pepper in a shallow bowl or tray. Leave to marinate at room temperature while you continue. Peel the parsnips, and chop them into 2cm pieces. Peel 2 garlic cloves. Place the garlic, parsnips and bay leaf in a saucepan and cover with cold water. Season with a good pinch of salt and bring to the boil. Boil for 20 minutes, until very soft. While the parsnips cook, cut the cabbage in half. Remove the root core from one half with a V-shaped cut. Slice very finely widthways. Heat the butter in the second saucepan and add the cabbage. Keep on a medium heat and allow it to cook, stirring occasionally, until wilting and softening – about 8 minutes. Keep on a very low heat until needed. Season with a little salt and black pepper. When the parsnips are ready, heat a thin layer of oil in the frying pan. When the pan is almost smoking hot, remove the lamb from the marinade. Add to the pan and cook for 2 minutes on each side. Remove from the pan and leave to rest for 3-4 minutes. While the lamb cooks and rests, drain the parsnips but reserve the liquid. Mash or blend the parsnips and garlic until as smooth as you can get them. Fold in the ground almonds. If it seems a little stiff then loosen with a little of the cooking water until you have a nice purée texture. Season the parsnips with salt, pepper, a little grating of nutmeg and a dash of the remaining lemon juice to your taste. Serve the lamb steaks, along with their resting juices, with the parsnips and wilted cabbage.