Lamb and roasted squash falafel
Introduction:
Tender, sweet and flavourful fried falafels. These take a bit of work, but are entirely worth it. Once you've rolled them let the falafels chill for a good while, or they'll fall apart when you fry them. Serve with taboulleh, hummus, pitta and salad for a complete Middle Eastern meal. 
Ingredients:
150g squash, peeled, deseeded & cut into 2cm dice 1 red onion, finely chopped 1 garlic clove, crushed & finely chopped 1 tsp ground cumin pinch of allspice 4 tbsp olive oil 75g minced lamb 1 tbsp sweet chilli sauce 50g chard 220ml milk 100g chickpea flour 1 tsp salt 3 tbsp lemon juice 50g cooked chickpeas, mashed sunflower oil
Method:
Preheat oven to 190°C/Gas 5. Roast the squash for 15-20 minutes to tender, roughly mash and set aside. Sweat the onion, garlic, cumin and allspice in a tablespoon of olive oil for 5 minutes to soften, set aside. Fry off the minced lamb for 5 minutes, stir in the sweet chilli sauce and set aside. Blanch the chard in boiling water for a couple of minutes, drain and cool then squeeze out and finely chop, set aside. Now bring the milk to simmering in a small saucepan and whisk in the chickpea flour a little at a time to avoid lumps, once you have a smooth paste add the remaining olive oil and the salt, continuing to stir with a wooden spoon for about 6-8 minutes until it balls (like choux pastry). This is the stuff that holds it all together. Remove from heat and allow to cool before mixing it together with the lemon juice and all the pre-prepared ingredients you've set aside, and the chickpeas, adding a little more chickpea flour if required. Using your hands, form the falafels by pinching off enough mixture to roll into walnut sized balls and once done, arrange on a tray, cover with cling film and chill for a couple of hours. Pour enough oil into a pan sufficient to cover the falafel, heat to very hot (test with a small amount of mixture to check that it sizzles) then fry for 3-4 minutes in small batches until golden brown. Remove carefully with a slotted spoon and sit on kitchen paper to drain and remove excess oil.