Roast leek and pain de sucre warm salad
Introduction:
This recipe was sent to us by one of our customers, Paul from London, who noticed that we didn't have Pain de Sucre recipes on our website. As he's come up with his own rather tasty salad, he thought our other customers might enjoy it too. Thank you Paul! The recipe for this warm salad was inspired by the classic French dish of chicory, Roquefort and walnuts. The potatoes are not essential but make the dish a more substantial meal and Marfona are an ideal variety. Caws Cenarth Perl Las is the perfect cheese here, but Bath Blue and Roquefort would also work well. Use more pain de sucre lettuce than you first think: a lot goes a little way. The quantities are a guide, they can be adjusted according to preference.
Ingredients:
Rapeseed, olive or groundnut oil, or any other cooking oil 2 medium leeks About 8-10 outer leaves of pain de sucre lettuce 1 large or 2 small potatoes 1 or 2 pears, peeled, cored and cut into bite-sized pieces A knob of butter A handful or two of walnuts, crumbled 80g blue cheese (or quantity to taste), such as Caws Cenarth Perl Las 1½ tbsp walnut oil 1½ tbsp extra virgin olive oil Balsamic vinegar, quantity to taste Salt and freshly ground black pepper
Method:
Preheat the oven to 220°C, or preferably, 200°C fan. If including potatoes, peel and cut them into 2 inch pieces and put them in a saucepan of salted water, bring to the boil and cook for about 7 minutes until just under-done. Drain and leave to steam dry. While the potatoes are boiling, cut off most of the green part of the leeks, trim the root (but keep it in place), cut them lengthways. Wipe clean, coat them in cooking oil, salt and pepper and place in a large roasting tin cut side down and put on the top shelf of the oven. Cook for about 5 minutes cut side down, then on the uncut side for a further 5 minutes or until they have softened and browned a little. Remove and keep warm. Next cut the lettuce leaves down the central rib, then diagonally into ‘ribbons’ about 3” wide. Pile them into the same roasting tin, toss in a little cooking oil, salt and pepper and put in the oven to roast. They will take about 7-10 minutes to wilt and brown but give them a toss every couple of minutes. While the lettuce is roasting heat a ½” depth of cooking oil in a saucepan. Cut the potatoes into bite-sized pieces, season them and then sauté them in the oil, turning regularly. This should take about 5 minutes. Drain on kitchen paper. At the same time, fry the pears in a splash of oil and a knob of butter until they soften and caramelise. Also drain on kitchen paper. Once all the ingredients are cooked, put the lettuce in two large soup bowls or large plates. Mix the walnut and extra virgin olive oil and toss the lettuce leaves in a little of this plus a little seasoning. Put two halves of the roasted leeks on top then scatter the sautéd potatoes, caramelised pears, crumbled walnuts and small blue cheese chunks over and around. Drizzle over the remaining walnut and olive oil mixture and finish with a drizzle of balsamic vinegar.