Leek and Roquefort pizza bread
Introduction:
A little fiddly, but absolutely worthwhile, these sweet leek and sharp cheese pizza breads make a most delectable vegetarian main. It's important to roll the dough as thinly as possible to get a good, crisp base. A pizza stone gives the very best result, but is not necessary. 
Ingredients:
40ml olive oil 1 garlic clove 1 bird’s-eye chilli, halved 300g strong white flour 7g sachet dried yeast 1 tsp salt 180ml lukewarm water 1½ tbsp olive oil 25g butter 2 small leeks, halved lengthwise & thinly sliced across 30g Parmesan, grated 100g mozzarella, grated 1½ tbsp fresh oregano, finely chopped 1½ tbsp flat-leaf parsley, finely chopped 60g Roquefort or other blue cheese, crumbled salt & pepper
Method:
Put the olive oil, garlic and chilli in a small bowl and set aside for the flavours to infuse. To make the dough, combine the flour, yeast and salt in a bowl, then stir in the water and oil. Turn out onto a lightly floured surface and knead for 5-8 minutes, until smooth and elastic. Place in a lightly oiled bowl, cover with cling film and set aside in a warm place for 1 hour or until doubled in size. Meanwhile, heat the butter in a small frying pan, add the leeks and cook over a low to medium heat for about 10 mins, until soft but not coloured. Season with salt and pepper. Remove from the heat and leave to cool. Place 2 heavy-based baking sheets or terracotta tiles in the oven and preheat to 250°C/Gas Mark 10. Combine the Parmesan, mozzarella and herbs in a small bowl. Cut 4 sheets of baking parchment, each large enough to hold a 22cm pizza. Divide the risen dough into 4. Dust the pieces of baking parchment with a little flour and roll out each piece of dough on the parchment, making a circle about 22cm in diameter. Brush with the flavoured oil and scatter with the cheese mixture, followed by the leeks, then the Roquefort. Slide the pizza, still on the paper, onto each hot baking sheet or tile and bake for 8-10 minutes, until golden. Serve immediately. Cook the remaining pizzas in the same way.