Leek and potato soup with cheese and herb scones
Introduction:
This is a simple but tasty vegetarian soup that can be made and frozen if you like (just leave the milk out and add when you reheat). Using half wholemeal and half white flour keeps the scones a little lighter, but use all wholemeal flour if you prefer. 
Ingredients:
20g butter or 1 tbsp oil 3 leeks, cleaned & sliced 2 medium potatoes, peeled & diced 800ml veg stock 400ml milk (or use all veg stock) 2 tbsp chives, snipped, or parsley, chopped, to serve (optional) 125g wholemeal self-raising flour 100g self-raising flour ½ tsp fine sea salt 1 tsp baking powder 1 tsp mustard powder ½ tsp cayenne pepper 40g butter, at room temperature 2 tbsp mixed fresh herbs, chopped (parsley, sage, thyme & rosemary) 120g Cheddar, grated 150ml milk, plus a little extra for brushing salt & pepper
Method:
In a large pan, heat the butter or oil. Add the leeks and gently fry until softened, about 5-6 minutes. Add the potatoes and stock and season. Bring to the boil and simmer for 15 minutes. Blend with a hand blender or blitz in a food processor until smooth. When you are ready to serve the soup, add just enough milk to give you a good consistency (or use extra veg stock). Gently reheat, check seasoning and sprinkle with the herbs if using. Preheat oven to 200˚C/Gas 6. Combine the flours, salt, baking powder, mustard powder and cayenne pepper in a large bowl. Add the butter and rub together with the flour using your fingertips, until the mixture resembles fine breadcrumbs. Add the herbs, half of the cheese and gradually pour in the milk, using your hands to gently combine the mixture until it forms a soft but firm dough. Don’t overwork the mixture or your scones will be heavy. Lightly flour a work surface and press the mixture out with your hands until it’s about 1½-2 cm thick. Using a pastry cutter, press out round shapes (do not twist to remove the cutter or the dough will not rise properly). Place the scones on a lightly buttered baking sheet, brush with a little milk and sprinkle over the rest of the cheese. Bake for about 12-15 minutes, depending on your oven, until the scones are cooked through and the cheese topping is golden. Transfer to a wire rack to cool. Serve warm if you can, cut in half and spread with some butter.