Grilled mackerel fillets & lemon orzo
Introduction:
Mackerel fillets are ideal for a quick supper, and grilling them is easier than pan-frying. The pin bones (the bones that run down the middle of the fish) may need removing, check for them by feeling down the middle; if you find any, use tweezers or kitchen scissors to remove them. Patting the fish skin dry makes it crisp up better when you cook it. 
Ingredients:
4 mackerel fillets 1 leek 150g spring greens salt & pepper 150g orzo pasta 25g butter oil for frying 1 tbsp capers 1 tbsp pesto verde 100ml white wine 1 lemon
Method:
Put the mackerel on a plate. Remove any large central pin-bones. Pat the skin dry with kitchen paper and rub with a little oil. Season. Set aside. Trim the leek. Halve, lengthways, then thinly shred. Strip the spring green leaves off their stalks. Wash the leaves, layer them, roll up, then thinly shred. Boil a kettle. Fill a medium saucepan with boiled water. Add a good pinch of salt. Boil the orzo for 7-8 mins, until just tender. While the pasta cooks, melt the butter with ½ tbsp of oil in a large saucepan. Start gently frying the leek, while you continue. Heat a thin layer of oil in a large frying pan. Pat the capers dry. Fry the capers for approx. 2 mins, until crispy (they start to change colour slightly). Transfer to a plate. Drain the orzo, reserving a little of cooking water. Run the orzo under cold water to cool it and prevent it from sticking. Heat your grill to medium-high. Lay the mackerel skin-side up on a lightly oiled grill tray (or oil a piece of foil and lay them on that in the tray). Grill for 4-5 mins (without turning) until cooked and the skin has started to crisp. Stir the white wine and spring greens into the leek. Let it bubble and reduce, stirring now and then, for 2-3 mins. If you need to thin it slightly, add a splash of the orzo cooking water. Stir in the orzo, pesto and a squeeze of lemon juice. Season to taste. Remove from the heat. Serve the orzo with the mackerel, sprinkled with the capers and with lemon wedges on the side.