Meat n veg loaf with red wine and porcini sauce
Introduction:
A very good way of stretching out a bit of mince, this American favourite is economical, rich and deeply satisfying. Serve a hot slice on buttery mash or a jacket potato, or at room temperature with crisp salad leaves and crusty bread. 
Ingredients:
15g dried porcini mushrooms, soaked in 300ml hot water 75g unsalted butter 1 small onion, chopped 1 bunch spring onions, trimmed & chopped 2 stalks celery, finely sliced 1 large carrot, peeled & finely diced 1 red pepper, deseeded & finely diced 2 garlic cloves, crushed with a little salt 2 large mushrooms, finely diced 500g minced beef 500g sausage meat (easiest thing to do is to squeeze the meat out of sausage skins, or you could make your own using pork mince, breadcrumbs & water) 2 tsp salt 2 tsp ground black pepper 1 tsp cumin ½ tsp grated nutmeg 5 tbsp piri-piri sauce 5 tbsp tomato ketchup 5 tbsp milk 5 tbsp double cream 3 large eggs, beaten 75g fresh breadcrumbs For the sauce: 50g unsalted butter 4 shallots, finely chopped 1 garlic clove, finely chopped 1 sprig thyme 1 bay leaf liquid from soaked porcini 175 ml red wine 175 ml beef stock
Method:
Preheat oven to 180ºC/Gas 4, remove the porcini from the hot water, setting it aside for the sauce and rinse the mushrooms under cold water, then squeeze to dry and chop finely. Strain the soaking water through muslin to remove any grit. In a large frying pan, melt the butter and gently fry the onions, celery, carrot, red pepper, garlic, mushrooms and chopped porcini over a medium heat until soft (but not brown), and the liquid from the chopped mushrooms has been cooked away. Transfer the contents of the pan to a large bowl and allow to cool a little before folding in the remaining ingredients – mixing well to combine. Have a taste test by frying a small amount of the mixture in a dash of oil and adjust the seasoning if necessary. Next, spoon the mixture into a greased loaf tin. Set the tin in a larger pan and pour enough water to reach halfway up the sides of the loaf tin. Transfer to the oven for about 1 hour or until the internal temperature of the meat loaf comes to 65ºC. Spoon away any fat that has risen up to the top and discard. Sit a weight on top of the loaf after removing it from the oven (a tin of beans on a small board will do) and let it stand in a warm place for 20 minutes or so before turning it out of the tin to be sliced. While the meatloaf rests, make the sauce by warming half the butter with the shallots, garlic, thyme and bay leaf. Cook for a few minutes until the shallots are soft but not colouring. Add the black pepper, the porcini stock and red wine and simmer over a high heat until the liquid has reduced by half. Now add the beef stock and reduce again by about a third. Stir in the remaining butter. Season to taste and remove the bay leaf and thyme sprig before serving.