Minute steak & Dijon mustard with smashed potatoes, cabbage, crème fraîche & herbs
Introduction:
Our minute sirloin steaks are proving hugely popular as a quick supper dish.
Ingredients:
400g potatoes 1 large or 2 smaller onions ½ Savoy cabbage 15g parsley 15g dill 25g butter oil for frying, e.g. sunflower or light olive 2 minute sirloin steaks 300g carrots 2 tbsp crème fraîche 1 tbsp Dijon mustard salt & pepper
Method:
Wash and peel the potatoes. Chop into 2-3cm chunks. Pop them in a pan, add a good couple of pinches of salt and cover with water. Keep to one side for a moment. Peel the onion(s), chop in half and finely slice. Cut the savoy cabbage in half, keeping one half for use in other meals. Finely shred the other half, cutting out and discarding the tough core and ribs. Wash half the bags of parsley and dill, shake dry and chop the leaves. Heat the potato water until boiling, then cook the potatoes for 10-12 minutes, until tender to knife point. Once cooked, drain the potatoes, then leave in the colander for 1 minute to let excess water evaporate. Put them back in the pan and coarsely mash, so they’re still a little chunky. While the potatoes are cooking, melt the butter with 1 tablespoon of oil in a large pan. Add the onion. Fry on a low heat for 10 minutes, stirring now and then. If they look like catching at any point, add a splash of water. Once done, remove from the heat. While onion fries, put a small pan of water on to boil. Wash, peel and finely slice the carrots (on the diagonal looks pretty). Get the steak ready to fry: rub with a little oil and season with salt and pepper. Heat the frying pan. When very hot, add the steaks. Fry for 1 minute on each side. Remove from the heat and leave them to rest while you finish the veg. Add the carrots to the pan of boiling water and cook for 4-5 minutes, until tender. Add the cabbage to the onion and fry on a medium heat for 3 minutes or so, stirring now and then, until wilted. Drain the carrots. Add the mashed potato to the onion and cabbage. Stir to warm it all through. Add the chopped parsley and dill, and the crème fraîche. Season the mash with salt and pepper. Stir together. Add a little more crème fraîche if you’d like a creamier finish. Serve the smashed potatoes and carrots with the steak and a little mustard.