Moroccan Barley Portobellos & Salad
Introduction:
Our portobellos are perfect for stuffing. A smoky pearl barley, with spinach and walnuts, is tumbled into the mushrooms and topped with ricotta. It makes a substantial portion, so we’ve served it with a dressed winter leaf salad. Save any leftover dressing in a jar in the fridge, for use with other meals. 
Ingredients:
125g pearl barley 1 tsp smoked paprika ½ tsp turmeric ¼ tsp ground cinnamon 1 tsp bouillon powder 1 tsp Dijon mustard 1 tbsp cider vinegar 1 garlic clove 4 portobello mushrooms 50g walnut pieces 200g baby spinach 20g sultanas 1 tbsp harissa - add to taste 125g ricotta cheese 1 lemon 50g mixed salad leaves
Method:
1. Preheat your oven to 190˚C/Gas 5 and put the kettle on to boil. Rinse the barley in a sieve. Put the rinsed barley, smoked paprika, turmeric, cinnamon and bouillon in a medium saucepan. Cover with 700ml of boiled water. Simmer for approx. 25 mins, stirring now and then, until tender but with a slight bite. Lower the heat towards the end (add a splash of water if it looks a little dry). 2. Meanwhile, in a small bowl, whisk the mustard, vinegar and 3 tbsp of olive oil with a fork. Season. This is your dressing. 3. Remove the stalks from the mushrooms. Finely chop the stalks; keep them aside. Lay the mushroom caps, gill-side up, in a roasting tin. Drizzle with oil. Season. Roast in the pre heated oven for approx. 15 mins, until tender. 4. While the mushrooms roast, heat a frying pan. Gently toast the walnuts for 2-3 mins, stirring often, until smelling nutty. Roughly chop, then transfer to a plate. 5. Stir the washed spinach in to the same pan. Cook it in its residual water until just wilted. Press the spinach against the side of the pan using a large spoon. Tip any excess water away over the sink. Transfer to another plate. 6. Heat a drizzle of oil in the same pan. Gently fry the mushroom stalks and chopped garlic for 1-2 mins, stirring now and then, until soft. Remove the pan from the heat. 7. Once the barley is ready, stir in the garlic, mushroom stalks, walnuts, sultanas and spinach. Add harissa and season, to taste. 8. Pile the barley mix into the mushrooms. Crumble over the ricotta and squeeze over a little lemon juice. Serve with the salad leaves coated in some of the dressing.