Mulligatawny lamb & spinach rice bowl
Introduction:
Mulligatawny is just the most fabulous name for a dish. It literally means ‘fire-water’, but don’t worry, we’ve not made ours too hot!
Ingredients:
1 large or 2 small onions oil for frying e.g. sunflower or light olive 25g flaked almonds 300g lamb mince 1 large or 2 smaller garlic cloves piece of fresh ginger 150g long grain rice 1 tbsp curry powder ½ tbsp garam masala 1 nutmeg 250ml chicken stock 400g baby spinach 2 tbsp yoghurt 1 lemon salt & pepper
Method:
Put a large pan of water on to boil for the rice. Peel and finely slice the onion. Heat 1 tablespoon of oil in another good-sized saucepan. Add the onion and fry on a low heat for 10 minutes, stirring now and then to stop it catching. Add a splash of water if it looks like it might. As soon as the onion starts to cook, put the flaked almonds in a frying pan. Heat gently, stirring often, until golden and toasted. Keep a good eye on them as they can catch and burn easily. Transfer to a plate or bowl. Heat 1 tablespoon of oil in the same frying pan. Add the lamb. Fry on quite a high heat to start with to brown it, stirring regularly, breaking up larger pieces. Once the pink colour disappears, turn the heat down. Gently cook for the rest of the time it takes to fry the onion. While the lamb and onion cook, peel and finely chop or crush 1 large or 2 smaller garlic cloves. Peel and finely grate enough ginger so you have a good 1 tablespoon worth. Rinse the rice in a sieve. After 10 minutes, tip the lamb into the onion pan, with any cooking juices. Add the garlic and ginger. Stir for 2 minutes. Add the curry powder, garam masala and grate in a little nutmeg, about quarter teaspoon. Add the rice. Stir, then add the chicken stock and 500ml of water. Season with a little salt and pepper. Bring the pan up to the boil, reduce the heat and cook on a low simmering boil for 20-25 minutes, until the rice is tender. Stir now and then and keep an eye on the liquid level as it cooks. Top up with a little more chicken stock or water if needs be. By the end of cooking you want a sloppy-ish mixture, but not too wet or dry. While the rice and meat cook, wash the spinach leaves. Add the leaves to the pan of boiling water. Boil for 30 seconds-1 minute, until just wilted. Drain the spinach and run under cold water to cool it. Squeeze out excess liquid with your hands, so you’re left with a small ball of spinach. Chop up the leaves. Once the rice is just tender, stir in the spinach. Check the seasoning and add a squeeze of lemon juice to taste. Divide between 2 serving bowls. Add a dollop of yoghurt and scatter over the toasted almonds to serve.