Mushroom & dill stroganoff
Introduction:
Mushroom stroganoff is a veggie classic with very good reason. Packed with smoky paprika flavour, with top notes of citrus, fresh herbs and soured cream, it’s also got that depth of umami (savoury taste) that’s sometimes missing from vegetarian dishes.
Ingredients:
1 onion 200g mushrooms 200g Portobello mushrooms 15g parsley 15g dill 150g brown basmati rice oil for frying, e,g, sunflower or light olive ½ tsp smoked paprika 1 tsp paprika 60ml white wine 1 tsp Dijon mustard 3 tbsp soured cream 1 lemon 50g salad leaves salt & pepper
Method:
Put a large pan of salted water on to boil. While the water heats up, peel and finely dice the onion. Heat 1 tablespoon of oil in the frying pan. Add the onion and gently fry for 10 minutes, stirring now and then to stop it catching. Add a splash of water if it looks like it might. Wipe both types of mushrooms clean. Slice the smaller ones. Cut the the portobellos into quarter’s, then slice. Wash half the packs of dill and parsley and shake or pat dry with kitchen paper or a clean cloth. Roughly chop both. Wash the salad leaves. Once the water comes to the boil, add the rice. It will take about 20 minutes to cook (NB brown rice still has a little more bite to it than white once cooked). Once the onion has fried for 10 minutes, increase the heat a little. Add the mushrooms and a splash more oil. Fry, stirring, for 3 minutes. Add both paprikas and fry for 1-2 minutes, until the mushrooms are softened. Season with salt and pepper. Remove from the heat. Once cooked, drain the rice. Put the mushrooms back on the heat. Add the wine and 2 tablespoons of water. Stir, letting it gently bubble away for 1 minute. Add the mustard and the soured cream. If it becomes a little too thick, add a splash of water or a little more cream. Add a little squeeze of lemon juice to the stroganoff. Check the seasoning. Stir in the chopped parsley and dill then serve over the rice with the salad leaves on the side, tossed in a little salad dressing, if you have any.