Roast mushrooms & beetroot maftoul
Introduction:
Maftoul is like large couscous. It soaks up liquid and flavour as it cooks. In this dish, it should absorb the flavour of the spice and the colour of the beetroot. If it looks like drying out too much before it has cooked, just add a dash more water. Za’atar is a herb, seed and nut mix, popular in the Middle East. It’s used to garnish dishes, or served as a condiment in which to dab olive oil-soaked bread. It traditionally includes sumac for a tart, citrus note; we’ve used a little fresh lemon zest instead. 
Ingredients:
4 portobello mushrooms oil for roasting salt & pepper 1 beetroot 1 tsp ground cumin ½ tsp allspice ½ tsp ground coriander 150g maftoul 1 tbsp balsamic vinegar 30g parsley 1 lemon 1 garlic clove 1 tbsp tahini 150g yogurt 20g hazelnuts 1 tbsp sesame seeds ½ teaspoon dried thyme
Method:
Preheat your oven to 200˚C/Gas 6. Put the kettle on to boil. Place the mushrooms in a roasting tray, with 3 tbsp oil. Season with salt and pepper. Turn them in the oil and roast them in the oven for 20 mins. Meanwhile, peel and grate the beetroot. Warm 1 tbsp oil in a saucepan. Add the beetroot and ground cumin, allspice and ground coriander. Fry for 1 min, until the spices start to smell fragrant. Add the maftoul to the beetroot. Tip in the vinegar and 450ml water from the kettle. Bring to a simmer. Season with salt and pepper. Cook gently for about 15 mins, until the maftoul has cooked and most of the water has evaporated. Meanwhile, wash the parsley and shake it dry. Finely chop the leaves and discard the stalks. Finely zest the lemon. Peel and finely chop 1 garlic clove. Mix the parsley with the tahini and yogurt to make the dressing. Add some chopped garlic (to your taste). Season with salt, pepper and a dash of lemon juice. To make the hazelnut za’atar; put the hazelnuts, sesame seeds and dried thyme onto a chopping board and roughly chop it with a pinch of salt and the lemon zest. Don’t chop it too finely; the texture of coarse breadcrumbs is good. When maftoul is ready, taste it and adjust the seasoning. Divide it between two plates and top with the mushrooms. Spoon over the dressing and garnish with the za’atar.