Mustard pork escalopes with parsnips & greens
Introduction:
Lemon and mustard pork escalopes accompanied by parsnips roasted with apples and greens. Escalopes are cuts of lean meat, beaten flat for swift cooking. Fry them in a very hot pan; they don’t take long and you want as much colour on them as possible, it adds to the flavour. The swiftest way to shred any leafy greens is to stack the leaves on top of each other and roll them into a tight cigar shape. Then slice them widthways, as finely as you can. 
Ingredients:
500g parsnips 2 shallots 2 garlic cloves salt & pepper oil for roasting & frying 150g spring greens 2 apples 4 pork escalopes 2 tbsp coarse grain mustard 1 lemon
Method:
Preheat your oven to 200˚C/Gas 6. Peel the parsnips and cut into chunky batons. Peel the shallots and cut each into 6 wedges. Roughly bash open 2 unpeeled garlic cloves. Toss the parsnips, shallots and garlic in a roasting tray with salt, pepper and just enough oil to coat. Roast in the oven for 25 mins, turning them halfway through cooking. Meanwhile, wash the spring greens. Strip the leaves off the central stalks. Discard the stalks and finely slice the leaves. Cut each apple into 8 wedges. Cut away the core from each wedge. When you take the parsnips and shallots out to turn them halfway through cooking, add the apples. Heat 1 tbsp oil in a frying pan. Add the spring greens and cook for 3-4 mins until beginning to wilt. Remove and keep to one side. Give the pan a wipe clean. Return the pan to the heat and add another 1 tbsp oil. Season the pork escalopes on both sides with salt and pepper. When the pan is very hot, fry the pork for just under 2 mins on each side. Remove the pan from the heat. Add the mustard and a squeeze of lemon juice to the pan. Turn the escalopes a few times to coat them in the mustardy juices, then leave them to rest. When the parsnips are cooked, remove the roasting tray from the oven and add the spring greens. Mix them through; the heat of the tray will warm them through and finish the cooking. Slip the skins away from the roasted garlic. Divide everything from the roasting tray between 2 plates. Serve with the escalopes and any juices from the pan.