One-pot fish curry with potatoes & green beans
Introduction:
This is a simple, healthy and tasty fish curry. You could use any white fish chunks, and substitute the beans for sugar snaps, broad beans or spinach. Here we’ve used ling, which is a great tasting, sustainable fish, similar to cod. It’s good for adding as chunky pieces to curries or simply grilled or fried.
Ingredients:
1 onion oil for frying e.g. sunflower or coconut 25g piece fresh ginger 1 garlic clove 1 fresh chilli 480g tomatoes 500g new potatoes 1 tbsp tomato purée tikka spice paste small bunch green beans 30g coriander 2 ling fish fillets 1 lemon salt & pepper
Method:
Peel and finely dice the onion. Heat 2 tablespoons of oil in a good-sized saucepan, one with a lid. Add the onion and fry on a low heat for 10 minutes, stirring now and then to stop it catching. Meanwhile, peel and finely grate the ginger. Peel and finely chop or crush 1 garlic clove. Halve, deseed and finely slice the chilli (use as much as you like, depending on your preference for heat). Wash and halve the tomatoes, then chop each half into 4 pieces. Wash and thickly slice the potatoes into 2-3cm (max) pieces (there’s no need to peel them). Once the onion has cooked for 10 minutes, add the ginger, garlic and chilli. Stir for 1 minute. Add the tomato purée and tikka spice paste and stir for 1 minute. Add the tomatoes and potatoes and 1 good mug (standard coffee or tea mug) of water (it doesn’t have to be too precise!). Bring to the boil, cover and cook for 10 minutes. Stir regularly as it cooks, to stop it from sticking. Add a splash more water if needed. Meanwhile, wash, trim and slice the green beans into 1-2cm pieces, at an angle looks good (save the rest for another meal). Wash and shake the coriander dry. Roughly chop it. Chop each fish fillet into 4 chunks. It does have skin on one side; it’s fine to leave it on and eat, but if you prefer, carefully rip it off. If you find that tricky when raw (it can be), it’s easier to peel it off once the fish has cooked. After 10 minutes, add the green beans to the pan. Cook uncovered for 3 minutes, then sit the fish on top of the curry, cover the pan again and let it steam for 2-3 minutes, until just cooked through. Take the pan off the heat and carefully lift the fish out for a moment. Season the curry to taste, stir in most of the coriander and add a squeeze of lemon juice, to taste. Serve in bowls, sitting the fish on top and spooning a little sauce over it. Add a wedge of lemon too, if you like.