One pot Basque Chicken
Introduction:
"This is a cross between a stew and a paella. The rice will soak up all the flavours from the stock and chorizo, and the chicken will cook gently in the steamy heat of the pan. As with a paella don’t mix the rice too vigorously at any stage – you don’t want it to release lots of starch like you would do in a risotto.
Ingredients:
2 chicken thighs light olive oil 1 large onion 1 red pepper 2 tomatoes 2 garlic cloves 100g cooking chorizo 1 vegetable stock cube pinch cayenne pepper ½ tsp dried thyme 150g calasparra paella rice 60ml white wine 30g black olives 1 orange salt & pepper
Method:
Season the chicken thighs well on both sides with salt and pepper. Put the casserole pan onto a medium heat and warm 2 tablespoons of light olive oil. Fry the chicken until golden brown on both sides. While the chicken colours, peel and finely slice the onion. Deseed and slice the red pepper. When the chicken thighs are nicely coloured remove them cautiously from the pan, put to one side and add the onion and red pepper instead. Cook the onion and pepper gently for 10 minutes until starting to soften, stirring often. While they cook, roughly chop the tomatoes. Peel and finely slice the garlic cloves. Remove the skin from the chorizo and break it into small chunks. Boil the kettle, crumble the stock cube into a measuring jug and add 400ml boiling water. Whisk until the cube has dissolved. Preheat oven on to 180˚C/Gas Mark 4. Add the chorizo to the pan, turn up the heat a little and fry it for 2-3 minutes. Add the tomatoes, thyme, rice and a pinch of cayenne. Turn everything gently to mix, then cook gently for 2 minutes. Add the chicken and wine. Cook until most of the wine has been absorbed. Tip in the hot stock and bring everything to a simmer. Slice the olives in half and add them to the pan. Zest three quarters of the orange and keep the zest for later, then finely slice quarter of the zested orange and add to the pan. Nestle the thighs deep into the rice. Pop the lid onto the pan and bake in the oven until both the rice and chicken are tender, 30-40 minutes.