Pan-fried Pollock with Radicchio, Orange & Almonds
Introduction:
Radicchio’s crunchy core leaves are naturally sweeter and less bitter. Starting from the centre, take a handful; roughly 6-7 for the salad. If you desire a few more, tear some of the larger leaves into bitesize pieces. Any leftovers can be added to salads. To segment the orange: slice away the skin in downward cuts, following the curve of the fruit. Hold the orange with one hand; with the other, make a V-shaped cut on each side of the membranes, to release the segments. Squeeze any juice from the membrane and save for later. 
Ingredients:
300ml vegetable stock 100g quinoa 2 oranges 1 radicchio 1 tbsp balsamic vinegar olive oil small bunch of parsley, chopped 40g blanched almonds, toasted 2 pollock fillets oil for frying
Method:
Add the stock to a saucepan and bring to the boil. Rinse the quinoa in a sieve. Add the quinoa to the stock. Simmer, stirring now and then, for approx. 12-15 minutes, until the grains are tender and have popped open. Keep an eye on the liquid; add a splash more water if needed to prevent it from sticking. When cooked, remove from the heat and fluff with a fork. Meanwhile, finely zest the oranges. Slice the top and base off 1 orange, remove the skin and segment it over a bowl (see cook’s note). Squeeze the juice from the other orange into a separate bowl. Remove the outer leaves from the radicchio, until you reach the tightly packed core. Wash and drain a handful of small core leaves (see cook’s note). Put them into a bowl with the vinegar, 1 tablespoon of oil and 4 tablespoons of orange juice. Season with salt and pepper. Add the parsley, almonds, orange segments and quinoa to the radicchio leaves. Mix well and season to taste. Heat 2 tablespoons of oil in a frying pan. Season both sides of the fish. When the oil is hot, place the fish skin-side down into the pan. Cook for 3-4 minutes, until golden. Carefully turn the fish over and cook for 2 more minutes. Make sure it’s cooked through. Divide the radicchio salad between 2 plates. Garnish with the orange zest and serve with the fish.