Parsnip, apple & chickpea salad with walnuts & blue cheese
Introduction:
The end of summer need not denote the end of salads. The parsnips are naturally sweet, a trait emphasised by roasting. The chickpeas add a neutral protein element – if you try this again some cooked dark lentils or haricot beans would work well too. The whole lot is lifted by a sharp dressing and the salty, savoury tang of the cheese.
Ingredients:
500g parsnips oil for roasting, e.g. sunflower or light olive 1 tin chickpeas 50g salad leaves 1 garlic clove 2 tsp Dijon mustard 1 tbsp red wine vinegar 1 tsp ground cumin 1 tbsp honey olive oil 2 apples 80g perl las blue cheese 60g walnuts salt & pepper
Method:
Preheat oven to 200˚C/Gas Mark 6. Wash and peel the parsnips. Cut them into equally sized, chunky batons. Place them in the roasting tray, season with salt and pepper, coat with a little oil. Roast them in the oven for 30-35 minutes, until tender and starting to colour. Give them a shake and turn half way through. Meanwhile, drain and rinse the tinned chickpeas. Break them up a little with your fingertips, not into a mush but into coarse pieces. Leave to drain in a sieve. Wash, drain and dry the salad leaves. Peel and very finely chop or crush the garlic clove. Put the garlic into a large mixing bowl and add the mustard, vinegar, cumin and honey. Whisk together until everything is emulsified. Slowly whisk in 4 tablespoons of olive oil, bit by bit until you have a well-combined dressing. Taste and season well with salt and pepper. It should be sweet, sharp and have a slight heat from the raw garlic. Wash the apples, cut them into quarter’s and cut away the core. Chop into 1cm dice and add to dressing – the vinegar will stop the apple from browning. When the parsnips have roasted, let them cool for 5 minutes before adding them to the dressing bowl, along with the chickpeas and salad leaves. Turn together gently until everything is well coated. Check the seasoning and add more if needed. Divide the mix between 2 plates, crumble over the blue cheese and the walnuts.