Pasty pie
Introduction:
This hearty pie is a lot simpler and quicker to make than individual pasties but is just as comforting for dinner on a chilly evening. The exact veg is not important – if you've not got swede in your veg box, use carrots, or even sweet potatoes instead. Goes well with a green salad to balance out the richness of the pastry. 
Ingredients:
2-3 tbsp vegetable oil 500-600g stewing steak (e.g. chuck or skirt), cut in 1.5cm cubes 1 onion, finely chopped 2 beef stock cubes 1 sprig thyme 1 potato, peeled & cut into 1cm dice ½ swede, peeled & cut in 1cm dice 400g shortcrust pastry (puff is not authentic but works well too) 1 egg, beaten (you will only need a little) salt & pepper
Method:
Have a large casserole dish ready. Heat 1 tablespoon of oil in a frying pan and brown the steak pieces in batches, adding more oil as needed. Transfer each batch to the casserole dish once coloured. In the same frying pan cook the onion for a few minutes and add to the meat. Crumble in the stock cubes, add the thyme and enough water until the meat is just covered. Bring to the boil and simmer gently, with the pan partially covered, for about 40-50 minutes until the meat is tender. If at this point the mix is watery remove the lid and boil rapidly until it has a thin stewy consistency. If it looks dry, add a little more water. Add the potatoes and swede and simmer for a further 7-8 minutes and season. Preheat oven to 200˚C/Gas 6. Transfer the mix to a pie dish or other ovenproof dish. Choose one so that the filling is roughly level with the rim of the dish, though a bit higher or lower won’t matter. Brush a little water over the rim of the pie dish. Roll out the pastry to roughly 3-4 mm thickness and place over the pie. Press the pastry onto the rim of the pie dish, using a fork if you like. Leave about 2cm pastry hanging over the edge all the way round, or a bit more if using puff pastry, and trim off the rest. Brush the pastry lid with beaten egg and make several slashes using a knife to allow steam to escape. Bake for 10 minutes then reduce heat to 180˚C/Gas 4. Cook for another 30-40 minutes until pastry is cooked and golden and the filling is bubbling. You can carefully shave off any overhanging pastry with a serrated knife before serving, or just leave as it is.