Plum-glazed pork steaks with stir-fried chard, jasmine rice with star anise
Introduction:
These pork steaks are so quick to cook. Glazing them with a little sugar-free plum spread and rice vinegar adds an extra flavour that goes well with the stir-fried chard and aromatic rice.
Ingredients:
150g jasmine rice 4 star anise salt 1 head chard 1 chilli 50g piece fresh ginger 1 garlic clove 2 tbsp plum spread 1 tbsp brown rice vinegar 4 boneless pork steaks oil for frying e.g. sunflower 1 tbsp sesame oil 1 tbsp tamari (gluten free soy sauce)
Method:
Put the rice in a saucepan. Add the star anise and a pinch of salt. Cover with 500ml of water. Bring to the boil, cover with a tight-fitting lid and cook for 10 minutes. Meanwhile, wash the chard. Remove the root and separate the leaves. Thinly slice the bottom part, the white stems. Keep the top, green leafy parts whole. Wash and finely dice or slice the chilli, removing the seeds or leaving them in for more heat, as you prefer. Peel and finely grate the ginger. Peel and finely chop, grate or crush 1 garlic clove. Mix the plum spread and rice vinegar in a small bowl or cup. Use your fingers to thinly spread half the mixture over both sides of the pork. Once the rice has boiled for 10 minutes, remove it from the heat and leave it to stand and steam (still covered) for the time it takes to fry the pork. Heat 1 tablespoon of oil in a frying pan on a medium-high heat. Add the pork and fry for 2 minutes on each side. It might smell like it’s burning a little; this is the natural sugars in the plum spread caramelising. Turn the steaks when they have gained a good colour. Remove to a plate once cooked. Wipe out the pan with some kitchen paper, or give it a quick wash. Heat 1 tablespoon of oil in the same pan. Add the sliced chard stems, cook for 2 minutes. Add the chilli, ginger and garlic. Stir-fry for a further 1 minute. Add the chard leaves and a splash (about 3 tablespoons) of water. Cook for 2 minutes. Remove from the heat and stir in the sesame oil and tamari sauce. Remove the star anise from the rice. Serve the sticky rice with the pork, drizzled with any meaty juices from the plate, and the stir-fried chard.