Pork loin with baked, stuffed apples and cider gravy
Introduction:
A perfect roast pork should come with a perfect crackling – a feat notoriously difficult to achieve. My advice is to remove the skin (your butcher can do this for you, although it is very easy with a sharp knife) and cook it separately. If you prefer to leave the skin on, try scalding with boiling water, pat dry and rub with salt. Cook at 220ºC for 15 minutes, and then drop to 180ºC/Gas 4 for 25-20 minutes.' (Ben Watson) 
Ingredients:
550g pork loin olive oil 1 onion cut into quarters 2 garlic cloves 1 sage sprig 4 small discovery apples or similar 3 shallots, chopped 6 sage leaves 2cm fresh ginger, peeled & grated 25g butter 1 tbsp plain flour 250ml cider 150ml chicken stock salt & pepper
Method:
Preheat oven to 220°C/Gas 7. Carefully pour boiling water slowly over the rind of the pork loin – this tightens the skin. Pat dry using a kitchen towel and place in a roasting tray. Brush the rind with a small amount of olive oil and season with sea salt. Roast for 15 minutes and then lower the oven temperature to 180ºC/Gas 4. Take the roasting tray out and add the onion, garlic cloves and sprig of sage around the meat. Roast for a further 25-30 minutes, or until completely cooked through. Core the apples, leaving their skins on and make a cross across the top of each apple. Mix together the chopped shallots, sage, and grated ginger and lightly season. Stuff the mixture into the centre of the apples and place them in a baking tray. Divide the butter between the apples, placing into the centre of each. Place in the oven 40 minutes before you want to serve. Move the joint to a warm place and spoon away the excess fat from the pan. Stir in the flour (using a whisk if you are worried about lumps). Over a low heat, add the cider and stock and scrape around the juices, ensuring to remove all of the solids from the bottom to create a sauce. Bubble until desired consistency. Strain and season to taste. Carve the pork into thick slices and serve with a baked apple, cider sauce, potatoes and vegetables.