Pumpkin, ginger and coriander fritters with lime yoghurt
Introduction:
This recipe may seem a bit of a fiddle, but the intensely flavourful, addictive little fritters it yields makes it all worthwhile. Good eaten hot, warm, and cold in a packed lunch pitta with some hummus and fresh salad. Makes around 12 medium-sized fritters. 
Ingredients:
300g Greek yogurt zest & juice 1 lime 1kg pumpkin, peeled & chopped into 1.5cm cubes olive oil 2 shallots, finely chopped 6cm fresh ginger, peeled & finely chopped 2 garlic cloves, crushed 1 tbsp coriander seeds, toasted & crushed in a pestle & mortar 1 tbsp cumin seeds, toasted & crushed in a pestle & mortar 1 tsp ground turmeric 150g plain or gram flour small bunch fresh coriander, roughly chopped 4 eggs, beaten zest & juice of 2 lemons sunflower oil salt & pepper
Method:
Preheat oven to 180°C/Gas 4. Mix the yoghurt with lime zest and juice in a bowl, whisk well and set aside. Toss the cubed pumpkin in a little olive oil, salt & pepper and roast until cooked through and a little caramelised (around 20 minutes). Set aside to cool a little. Heat a little oil in a pan and fry the shallots, ginger and garlic over a medium heat for 3 minutes. Now add the toasted and ground spices and fry for another 2 minutes, then transfer to a large bowl. Put the flour, chopped coriander, eggs, salt and pepper into the bowl with the shallot/spice mix, lemon zest and juice and whisk into a batter. When the mixture is smooth, add the warm pumpkin. Pour sunflower oil into a pan – 1.5cm depth – and heat. When hot, spoon in a test portion of the batter mixture and cook for around 2-3 minutes on both sides until golden. Drain on some kitchen paper and then eat with some yoghurt to test the seasoning – this mix does take a lot of salt. Once happy with the seasoning, continue frying, adding portions of the batter mixture, around 2 tablespoons per fritter, to the pan. Fry in small batches, controlling oil temperature so the fritters cook but don’t burn. They should take 2-3 minutes on each side. Remove from pan and drain on a kitchen paper. Serve with lime yoghurt on the side and some extra coriander leaves on top.