Pumpkin madeleines with pumpkin custard & cinnamon meringue
Introduction:
Unusual and slightly long winded but totally worth it. The meringue isn’t necessary but adds an impressive finish. All the elements can be made individually if you don’t want to tackle the whole recipe. 
Ingredients:
For the custard: 500g pumpkin flesh 50g sugar 5 egg yolks ½ pt cream For the meringue: 100g egg whites 130g caster sugar 70g soft dark brown sugar Pinch of cinnamon For the madeleines: 225g butter, soft 100g caster sugar 1 egg 200g plain flour 100g soft dark brown sugar 200g pumpkin purée 1 tsp bicarbonate of soda 1 tsp baking powder 2 tsp cinnamon ¼ tsp salt
Method:
For the custard: Start by making a pumpkin purée. Cook the pumpkin flesh in water until soft. Strain and purée in a food processor until smooth. Pass through a sieve and chill. Once the mix is chilled, pre-heat an oven to 120˚C/ Gas 1/2 . Beat the sugar and egg yolks until thick and creamy. Warm the cream over a medium heat until it just comes to the boil then whisk into the egg yolk mix, followed by 200g of the pumpkin purée. Strain into a jug and fill four ramekins or one bigger dish. Place the dish/ramekins into a roasting tray and add enough warm water to cover half the height of the dish/ramekins. Bake for 25/30 mins until there is a slight wobble in the middle. Remove and chill in the fridge. Top with the meringue from below or top with sugar then blow torch for a crème brûlée finish. For the meringue: In a metal round bottom bowl combine the egg whites, both sugars and the cinnamon. Place over a simmering pan of water and whisk continuously until the sugars have dissolved. The mixture should be warm if you dip your finger in and it will still be liquid at this stage. Using an electric whisk, whisk until thick, glossy and cooled. Top the custard(s) and either blow torch to finish or brown under a grill. Any left over meringue can be baked at 90˚C for 1 ½ - 2 hours until dry. For the madeleines: Pre-heat oven to 180˚C/ Gas 4. Cream the butter and both sugars for around 10 mins. Add the egg and a spoonful of flour to help it mix in comfortably, then fold in the rest of the ingredients. Grease with butter and dust with flour a madeleine tray(s). Spoon the mix into the tray and bake for 10/12 mins. Once cooked allow to sit for 2 mins then remove from the tray and place on a cooling rack. Serve with the custard and meringue.