Puttanesca steak & parmesan mash
Introduction:
Rump steaks are served with an Italian inspired tomato and red wine sauce. On the side, is an everso-slightly indulgent Parmesan mash and some vibrant greens. 
Ingredients:
1 tbsp capers 500g potatoes salt & pepper 1 garlic clove 30g pitted black olives 100g spring greens oil for frying 250g cherry tomatoes 25g butter 20g Parmesan splash of milk (optional) 2 rump steaks 100ml red wine 1 tsp herbes de Provences 1 tbsp red pesto ¼ tsp chilli flakes - add to taste
Method:
Put the capers in a mug of cold water to soak. Boil a kettle. Peel and dice the potatoes into 2cm chunks. Transfer the potatoes and a good pinch of salt to a medium saucepan. Cover well with boiled water. Bring to a low boil. Cook for approx. 10 mins, until tender, while you continue. Peel and chop the garlic. Roughly chop the olives. Strip the spring green leaves off their stalks. Layer up the leaves, roll into a cigar shape, then thinly shred. Put the spring greens in a small saucepan with a drizzle of oil - set aside for now. Drain the potatoes. Leave them in the colander while you halve the tomatoes, then put them back in their saucepan and mash with the butter and Parmesan. If you like, add a splash of milk if you have some. Cover with a plate or lid. Lightly oil and season the steaks. Heat a frying pan until very hot. Fry the steaks for 1½-2 mins on each side for mediumrare, slightly longer for more well-done. Transfer to a plate. Drain the capers. Add 1 tbsp of oil to the frying pan. Fry the tomatoes on a medium-high heat for 2 mins, until starting to soften. A bit of colour is good. At the same time, heat the spring greens pan on a medium heat. Add a splash of water to help them along if needed. Season to taste. Put a lid on and leave aside (the steam will keep cooking them). Stir the garlic into the tomatoes. Add the wine. Let it bubble and reduce by ½. Stir in the herbes de Provences, olives, capers, red pesto and chilli flakes, to your taste. Reduce the heat and simmer for 1 min more. Add a splash of water to thin the sauce if needed (we used 2 tbsp). Season. Serve the mash, spring greens and steaks with the sauce.