Raspberry trifle
Introduction:
Rich, unctuous syllabub and custard combine with the sharpness of the jelly and soft, yielding sponge. Making trifle is very satisfying: perhaps it's the challenge of getting each part perfect. This can be made ahead and left in the fridge. It's a spectacular end to a dinner party. 
Ingredients:
300g sponge cake, cut into 2cm cubes 3 tbsp caster sugar 2 tbsp raspberry liqueur or any berry liqueur, or sherry 400g raspberries, plus a few extra to decorate ½ gelatine leaf 4 egg yolks 1 dssp caster sugar 1 tsp cornflour 300ml single cream 4 drops vanilla extract 100ml sherry 50ml brandy grated zest & juice of 2 lemons 75g caster sugar ½ tsp fresh nutmeg, grated 350ml double cream a few toasted flaked almonds, to decorate
Method:
Scatter the cubes of sponge cake over the bottom of a trifle bowl. Put 2 tablespoons of the sugar in a small pan with 2 tablespoons of water and heat gently until the sugar has dissolved. Remove from the heat and stir in the liqueur. Pour this mixture over the cake to soak it. Put 250g of the raspberries in a pan with the remaining tablespoon of sugar and 1 tablespoon of water and heat until the mixture starts to bubble and the juices run. Liquidise in a blender or food processor and then strain through a sieve. Soak the gelatine in a little cold water for about 5 minutes, until soft, then remove from the water and squeeze out the excess. Add the gelatine to the hot raspberry purée and stir until dissolved. Pour the mixture over the sponge cake while still warm. Sprinkle with the rest of the raspberries and then chill. Meanwhile, make the custard. In a bowl, mix the egg yolks with the sugar and cornflour. Put the cream in a pan with the vanilla and heat until it is about to boil. Pour it over the egg yolk mixture, stirring well, then return it to the pan. Cook over a low heat, stirring constantly, until thickened – don’t let it boil or it will curdle. Strain the custard into a bowl, allow to cool a little, then pour it over the raspberry layer and chill well. To make the syllabub, put the remaining ingredients, apart from the almonds, in a large bowl and whip until soft peaks are formed. Top the trifle with the syllabub and decorate with toasted flaked almonds and raspberries.