Rhubarb meringue pie
Introduction:
This is a pie of sumptuous contrasts. It works warm or cold. If you don't want to make the pastry it's perfectly good as a pudding: put the rhubarb in a small baking dish and top with the meringue. You could add a little ginger in with the rhubarb too. 
Ingredients:
for the pastry: 25g toasted hazelnuts 200g plain flour 115g cold unsalted butter, diced 30g caster sugar 1 egg yolk 1 tbsp cold water 1 egg yolk for brushing for the filling: 600g rhubarb, cut into 3cm pieces 200g caster sugar zest of 2 oranges splash grenadine (optional) juice of 1 orange 2 tbsp cornflour for the meringue: 3 egg whites 180g caster sugar
Method:
Make the pastry: In a food processor, blitz the hazelnuts to a fine crumb. Add the flour, butter, sugar, 1 egg yolk and water and blitz until a dough is formed. Roll out the pastry on a floured work surface and line a 23cm deep-fluted flan dish. Prick the base with a fork. Cover with cling film and chill for 30 minutes. Preheat oven to 180°C/Gas 4. Remove from the fridge and line with baking parchment and ceramic baking beans or uncooked rice. Place on a baking tray and bake for 15 minutes. Remove the paper or foil, brush the pastry with egg yolk and bake for another 5-10 minutes (don’t let it brown). Make the filling: Put the rhubarb, sugar, orange zest (and grenadine, if you have it) in a large saucepan. Cover and cook until the rhubarb is just tender (about 5 minutes or so, depending on the thickness of the rhubarb). Remove from the heat. In small bowl, blend the orange juice and cornflour. Stir into cooked rhubarb. Place back on the heat and bring back to a gentle boil, stirring constantly, until slightly thickened. Cook for 1-2 minutes. Allow to cool slightly then pour into the pastry case. Spread out the mixture evenly. For the meringue: In large bowl, whisk the egg whites until they form soft peaks. Gradually whisk in the sugar, a little at a time. Spoon the meringue over the rhubarb, making sure to cover the rhubarb completely. Bake for 25 minutes, until the meringue is golden.