Roasted vegetable enchiladas with re-fried beans & salsa
Introduction:
Packed with roasted veg and re-fried beans and topped with melted cheese and a tangy salsa, enchiladas make a tasty vegetarian meal. If we were being true to their origins, we’d be using corn tortillas, but they’re harder to source organically. Instead we’ve gone for flour ones, which work just as well.
Ingredients:
1 brown onion oil for frying & roasting, e.g. sunflower or light olive 1 courgette 1 pepper 1 large or 2 small garlic cloves 1 tin of red kidney beans 1 tsp ground cumin 1 tsp ground coriander 1 cucumber 125g cherry tomatoes 2 spring onions 1 chilli 1 lime 3 tbsp passata 4 tortillas 75g Cheddar, grated pack salad leaves few leaves fresh parsley salt & pepper
Method:
Preheat oven to 210˚C/Gas Mark 6. Peel and finely dice the onion. Heat 2 tablespoons of oil in a medium saucepan. Fry the onion on a low heat, stirring now and then,for 10 minutes. Add a splash of water if it looks like catching. Meanwhile, wash the courgette and pepper. Halve and deseed the pepper then chop both veg into small dice. Toss in a roasting tray in just enough oil to coat. Season with salt and pepper and pop in the oven for 15 minutes. Peel and finely chop or crush the garlic. Drain the kidney beans into a colander and rinse under cold water until the water runs clear. Rinse out the tin and refill two thirds full with water. After 10 minutes, add the garlic, cumin and coriander to the onion. Stir for 2 minutes. Add the kidney beans, tin of water, and salt and pepper to season. Bring up to a low boil and cook for 10 minutes. Make the salsa: wash and chop one third of the cucumber into 1cm dice. Wash and dice the cherry tomatoes. Wash, trim and finely slice 2 spring onions. Deseed and finely chop the chilli (use just half or all of it, depending on your preference for heat). Mix the cucumber, tomato, spring onions and chilli in a small bowl. Add a good squeeze of lime juice. Keep to one side. Once the beans have simmered for 10 minutes, coarsely mash in the pan. Gently heat for a further 5 minutes or so to dry the mixture out a little (but take care it does not catch on the bottom of the pan – stir regularly). Once the beans and veg have cooked, spread a little of the passata (about 1 tablespoon) on the bottom of your baking dish. Drizzle over a little oil and mix together. Lay the tortillas out on your work surface. Fill the middle of each with a sausage-shaped dollop of re-fried beans, then top with the roasted veg. Roll each tortilla into a cylinder, then carefully lay, seam-side down, in the baking dish. Spread over the remaining passata. Sprinkle over the Cheddar and salsa. Bake for 20-25 minutes, until the cheese is melted. Meanwhile, wash the salad leaves. Wash and roughly chop a few parsley leaves. Use a fish slice or spatula to carefully lift the enchiladas onto plates to serve. Scatter over the parsley and serve the salad leaves alongside.