Roast cauliflower gnocchi with sheep’s cheese, crispy garlic & lemon
Introduction:
Don’t be put off by the inclusion of a whole bulb of garlic in this recipe. By poaching the cloves the pungent notes are mellowed and the whole thing becomes sweet and soft. They can then be lightly browned in the pan until slightly crisp and chewy, a process that would render them bitter if cooked from raw.
Ingredients:
1 whole garlic bulb 1 tbsp capers 1 small cauliflower light oil e.g. sunflower or light olive 30g parsley 150g sheep’s cheese 1 lemon 250g potato gnocchi 25g butter salt & pepper
Method:
Put a large pan of salted water on to boil. Preheat your oven to 220˚C/Gas Mark 8. Break the garlic bulb into separate cloves. Peel each one but keep them whole. Pop them in the water and simmer them gently for 20 minutes. Meanwhile, put the capers into a small bowl of cold water to help get rid of some of the salt. Remove the leaves and central stalk from the cauliflower. Cut the head into small bite-sized florets. Place the florets in a roasting tray, coat them well with some light oil and season with salt and pepper. Pop them in the oven to roast for 10-12 minutes or until coloured and just cooked. While the cauliflower roasts, wash half of the parsley, shake it dry, pick off the leaves and finely chop them. Coarsely grate the pack of sheep’s cheese. Zest and juice the lemon. Check the garlic: it is ready when it gives easily to the tip of a knife. Remove it from the pan with a slotted spoon. Keep the water boiling. Split the larger cloves into quarter’s, lengthways, and split the smaller ones in half. Drop the gnocchi into the same water and boil for 3-4 minutes until they begin to float. Drain and keep to one side. Put the frying pan on to heat. Add the butter and let it begin to foam. Add the garlic and fry on a medium heat for 2 minutes, until starting to colour. Add the gnocchi. Fry for a further 2 minutes. Add the cauliflower and capers, cook for 1 more minute. Add the sheep’s cheese, parsley and a dash of lemon juice. Toss everything together and check the seasoning. Divide between 2 bowls and garnish with a sprinkle of lemon zest and a few turns of pepper.