Roast squash wraps with black bean chilli, smoked cheddar & soured cream
Introduction:
Traditionally in Mexico they would use something called a chipotle chilli to add a smoky note to a dish. It is a Jalapeno chilli pepper left to dry and then smoked for a few days. We’ve substituted them for an easier to source smoked paprika and some smoked cheese instead. Our smoked cheddar is made by Godminster in Somerset.
Ingredients:
1 butternut squash light olive or sunflower oil 1 onion 2 garlic cloves 1 tin black beans 1 tin chopped tomatoes ½ tsp dried chilli flakes 1 chilli spice pot: 1 tsp ground cumin 1 tsp dried oregano ¼ tsp cinnamon 1 tsp sweet smoked paprika 30g coriander 1 lemon 50g smoked cheddar 1 pack tortillas 1 pot soured cream salt & pepper
Method:
Preheat oven to 200˚C/Gas Mark 6. Peel the squash and split it in half. Remove the soft seedy core with a large spoon. Chop the squash into 2cm chunks. Place the squash in the roasting tray with 2 tablespoons of oil. Season with salt and pepper and mix well. Place in the oven and roast for 25- 30 minutes until tender and slightly coloured at the edges. Meanwhile prepare the chilli beans. Peel and finely slice the onion. Peel and finely chop the garlic. Heat 2 tablespoons of oil in a large saucepan. Add the onions and fry gently for 10 minutes until translucent, stirring occasionally. Add the garlic, continue cooking for 2 minutes until fragrant. Drain the black beans. Add them to the pan with the tinned tomatoes, chilli flakes and chilli spice pot. Quarter fill one of the tins with water and add that too. Season with salt and pepper, bring to a simmer and cook gently for 20 minutes. While the chilli cooks, wash the coriander and shake it dry. Roughly chop it, stalks and all. Mix half the coriander with the soured cream. Cut the lemon into 6 wedges. Grate the smoked cheddar. When everything has cooked, lay out the wraps. Divide the chilli, squash, smoked cheddar and remaining coriander equally between them. Tuck in the tops and bottoms and roll them up. Place the frying pan on a medium heat. Cook the rolled tortillas in the dry pan until lightly golden on each side. You may need to do this in batches. Be careful when turning them that they don’t unfurl. Alternatively you could place them on a baking tray and pop them in the oven for 2-3 minutes to warm through. Serve with the soured cream and the lemon wedges for squeezing.