Roasted Mackerel with Bulghur, Grapefruit, Fennel & Pistachio
Introduction:
Mackerel is an oily fish and works well with something sharp, fresh and acidic like grapefruit, to cut through the richness. You could use oranges, stewed rhubarb or gooseberries later in the year. To segment a grapefruit (or orange), slice a thin disc off the the top and bottom then cut away the rest of the skin with a small, sharp knife in downward cuts. Hold the skinned fruit in one hand over a bowl to catch the juice, and make a V-shaped cut on either side of the membrane to release each segment. Rotate and repeat. Squeeze out the leftover pulp and membrane for extra juice. 
Ingredients:
60g bulghur wheat olive oil 1 pink grapefruit 1 tbsp white wine vinegar 1 tsp honey 1 fennel bulb, finely sliced 2 mackerel, gutted and cleaned 40g pea shoots small bunch of parsley, chopped 30g shelled pistachios, coarsely chopped
Method:
Preheat your oven to 200˚C/Gas 6. Put a kettle on to boil. In a heatproof bowl, mix the bulghur with 1 teaspoon of olive oil and a generous pinch of salt. Pour enough boiled water over the bulghur to cover it by 2cm. Cover the bowl tightly with clingfilm and set side. Peel and segment the grapefruit over a bowl, to catch any juice (see cook’s note). Make a quick dressing by whisking 1 tablespoon grapefruit juice with the vinegar, honey and 3 tablespoons of olive oil. Season with salt and pepper. Mix the grapefruit segments and sliced fennel with the dressing. Make 3 diagonal slashes on both sides of each fish. Place baking tray and rub each fish with a little oil. Season well with salt and pepper, inside and out. Drizzle a little grapefruit juice across the fish and pop them in the oven to roast for 12-15 minutes, until the flesh on the mackerel pulls easily away from the bone. Drain any remaining water away from the bulghur. Mix the bulghur, pea shoots, parsley and pistachios into the dressed fennel and grapefruit. Taste and adjust the seasoning. Divide the mackerel between 2 plates and pile the salad on the side.