Roasted squash with sage buttered sprouts, chestnut, almond & mushroom ragout
Introduction:
Butternut squash stuffed with chestnuts, almonds and mushrooms, with Brussels sprouts in a nutty sage butter. If you changed the butter to soy butter or coconut oil, you could make this completely vegan; it’s a good recipe for Christmas if you have any non-dairy eaters to feed.
Ingredients:
1 butternut squash oil for frying & roasting, e.g. sunflower or light olive 5g dried mushrooms 1 onion 250g mushrooms 1 stalk rosemary 15g parsley 6-8 fresh sage leaves 250g Brussels sprouts 1-2 garlic cloves 4 cooked chestnuts 25g flaked almonds 25g butter 1 tsp Dijon mustard salt & pepper
Method:
Preheat oven to 200˚C/Gas Mark 5. Cut the squash in half lengthways. Remove the seeds. Lay each half cut side up on a baking tray. Drizzle with oil. Season with salt and pepper. Turn cut side down and bake for about 45 minutes, until completely tender when pierced with a knife. Meanwhile, boil a kettle. Put the dried mushrooms in a small heatproof bowl or mug. Add 200ml of boiled water. Leave to stand. Peel and finely dice the onion. Wipe the fresh mushrooms clean with a damp piece of kitchen paper or clean cloth. Cut into quarter’s if small, or thickly slice if larger. Wash half the bag of parsley and 6-8 sage leaves, depending on size. Pick the leaves off 1 sprig of rosemary and very finely chop, so they resemble breadcrumbs. You need about 1 tablespoon worth. Pick the outer leaves off the Brussels. Give the stalks a quick trim if needed. Wash them. Peel and finely chop 1-2 garlic cloves, depending on how much you like it. Roughly chop the chestnuts. Put a pan of water on to boil. Put the almonds in a pan. Dry fry, stirring now and then, on a low heat until golden, then remove to a plate. Heat a splash of oil in the same pan. Add the onion. Fry on a low heat for 10 minutes, stirring now and then to stop it catching. Add a splash of water at any point if it looks like it might catch. Add the fresh mushrooms and rosemary. Fry for 5 minutes. Add the garlic. Fry for 2 more minutes. Add the dried mushrooms and their soaking liquid. Season. Cook on a low boil for 10 minutes. Keep an eye on the liquid level as it cooks. Add a splash more water if needs be; you want a reduced, stew-like consistency at the end, not too dry. Meanwhile, chop the parsley leaves. Shred the sage leaves. Remove the pan from the heat. Stir in the chestnuts and mustard. Reheat to serve when needed. When the pan of water is boiling, add the sprouts. Cook for 5-8 minutes, depending on size, until tender. Drain. Cut a few in half, if you like. When the squash is ready, heat the butter in the pan you used to cook the Brussels. Add the Brussels and shredded sage. Fry, turning the Brussels, until the butter turns a light, nutty brown. Reheat the ragout if needs be. Check the seasoning. Serve piled into the squash, scattered with the almonds and chopped parsley, with the Brussels on the side.