Roasted beetroot dip with caraway flatbreads
Introduction:
This recipe calls for a fair amount of preparation, but makes a great start to a party. Or eat it as part of a mezze spread with hummus and Moroccan carrot salad. The distinctive bittersweet flavour of caraway is a great complement to the earthiness of the beets. 
Ingredients:
for the dip: 500g beetroot, cleaned & trimmed, skins left on 1 tsp cumin seeds ½ tsp coriander seeds 175g plain yoghurt handful fresh mint leaves, roughly shredded 2 garlic cloves, crushed ¼-½ tsp paprika, depending on your taste juice of ½ lemon & more to taste for the flatbread: 250g strong white bread flour & extra for dusting 1 tsp salt 1 tsp quick-acting dried yeast 150ml lukewarm water 1 tbsp olive oil & extra for greasing 1 tsp caster sugar 4 tsp caraway seeds
Method:
For the dip: Preheat oven to 200˚C/Gas 6. Wrap each beetroot tightly in foil. Place in a baking dish and roast. Depending on the size of beetroot, it could take from 30 minutes to 2 hours or more for very large beets. They are done when you can easily insert a knife into the flesh through the foil. Leave to cool, then unwrap and peel off the skin. In a dry frying pan, toast the cumin and coriander seeds until you can just smell their fragrance (do not let them burn, keep the heat low). Crush them using a pestle and mortar, or use a rolling pin and small bowl. Place all the ingredients in a food processor. Blitz until smooth. Taste and add a little more lemon juice and seasoning as you like. For the flatbreads: Place the flour and salt in a large mixing bowl. In another bowl, dissolve the yeast in the water, oil and sugar. Leave for a few minutes. Pour the yeast mixture into the flour and use your hands to mix together. Transfer to a lightly floured work surface and knead well for several minutes, until you have a smooth and elastic dough. Lightly oil the mixing bowl, put the dough in and cover with a cloth. Set aside to rest for 1 ½-2 hours, until the dough has at least doubled in size. Heat oven to 230˚C/Gas 8. Divide the dough into four, and roll into balls. On a floured work surface, use a rolling pin to roll each ball into a flat oval shape. Sprinkle over the caraway seeds and lightly press into the dough. Place on a lightly oiled baking tray and bake for about 8-10 minutes, until the flatbreads are starting to bubble and turn light brown in places. Bake in batches if needed and keep in a warm place. Serve warm.