Root vegetable bobotie with spiced cabbage
Introduction:
Bobotie is a spiced dish from South Africa, originally using leftover meat; nowadays it's often made with minced beef or pork. This one is a veggie version and uses up any odds and ends of root veg. Use a mixture of whatever you have: carrots, celeriac, parsnips, potatoes and sweet potatoes are all fine. A few added cooked lentils or leftover roast lamb or beef would be good too. The topping should look a bit like a moussaka. 
Ingredients:
for the bobotie: 2 slices white bread 300ml milk 2 tbsp oil for frying, e.g. vegetable or sunflower 1 onion, sliced 1 garlic clove, crushed 1 tsp fresh ginger, peeled & grated 2 tsp mild or medium curry powder pinch ground cloves 1 kg mixed root veg, peeled & cut into small 1cm dice 2 tbsp mango chutney 50g sultanas 200ml water 4 eggs 475g plain full-fat yoghurt little nutmeg, freshly grated 8 bay leaves for the cabbage: 3 tbsp oil for frying 400g cabbage, core removed, finely shredded 2 tsp cumin seeds 2 tbsp desiccated coconut 1 dried red chilli, finely chopped
Method:
Preheat oven to 180°C/Gas 4. For the bobotie: In a bowl, soak the bread in the milk. In a large pan, heat the oil and fry the onion for about 5 minutes, until translucent. Add the garlic, ginger and spices and cook for another 2 minutes. Add the root vegetables, mango chutney, sultanas and water. Bring to the boil, reduce the heat and simmer for about 10 minutes. Break up the bread and add to the pan, stirring to combine. Season with salt and pepper. Transfer to a deep sided baking dish (about 20cm x 30cm). In a small bowl, lightly beat the eggs and yoghurt together. Add a little freshly grated nutmeg. Pour evenly over the veg. Lay the bay leaves on top and bake in the oven for about 35-40 minutes, until the top is golden and fluffy. For the spiced cabbage: Heat 2 tablespoons of oil in a large pan. Add the cabbage and lightly fry for about 5 minutes; you want it to have softened but still have some bite. Remove the cabbage to a large bowl. Add another tablespoon of oil, the cumin, coconut and chilli to the pan. Fry for a minute or so, until the coconut is turning golden. Pour over the cabbage to serve.