Rosti & beef pie with leeks & greens
Introduction:
This is more or less a cottage pie. Instead of boiling and mashing the spuds, I’ve chosen to make a rosti mix. Not only does this give us a different texture, but the uneven surface allows for more crispy edges when baked.
Ingredients:
500g potatoes 1 large or 2 small onions 1 carrot 1 celery stick 1 garlic clove 1 sprig rosemary plain oil for frying 300g minced beef 1 tbsp plain flour 1 tbsp tomato purée chicken stock ¼ tsp allspice 1 tbsp Worcester sauce 25g butter 3 leeks ½ spring cabbage salt & pepper
Method:
Wash and scrub the potatoes. Pop them into a pan of cold salted water. Bring to the boil and cook for 10 minutes. Remove from the pan and keep to one side to cool slightly. While the potatoes boil, peel and finely dice the onion(s). Wash and peel the carrot, cut into a small dice. Wash, trim and finely dice the celery. Put them in the saucepan to gently fry in a little oil for 10 minutes until softened. Peel and finely chop or crush the garlic clove. Strip the leaves from a stalk of rosemary and finely chop them. Season the beef with salt and pepper. Turn up the heat and add the beef to the pan. Cook for a few minutes until it has lightly browned. Add the garlic, rosemary, flour and tomato purée. Fry for a further 1 minute before adding the allspice, Worcester sauce and the stock. Simmer for 10 minutes while you sort out the rosti topping. Preheat your oven to 200˚C/Gas Mark 6. Coarsely grate the parboiled potatoes into the mixing bowl. Gently melt the butter in the second saucepan. Tip half of the butter into the potatoes. Add 1 tablespoon of oil, season them well with salt and pepper and mix together. Keep the remaining butter in the pan to one side. Taste the beef and season to your taste. Transfer it to the oven dish. Gently and evenly top it with the rosti mix. Don’t press it down too firmly. Scruffy but evenly spread is the aim. Bake for 20-25 minutes until the top is golden and the potato cooked. While the pie cooks, trim the root ends and dark leaves from the leeks. Split them in half and slice into 1cm pieces. Wash them well. Finely shred and wash half the cabbage, cutting out and discarding any tough central ribs. Add 1 tablespoon of oil to the remaining melted butter. Put the pan on a gentle heat. Cook the leeks for 6-8 minutes until softening but not colouring. Add the cabbage and cook for a further 5-6 minutes until wilted and tender. Season with salt and pepper. Serve generous scoops of pie with the leeks and cabbage on the side.