Salmon and dill fishcakes with roasted asparagus
Introduction:
A delectable spring treat of tender asparagus and soft, flavoursome fish cakes with a crispy coating. This makes an excellent light lunch or dinner and is quick enough for midweek cooking. You could also make a cheaper version of this with good quality tinned salmon. This goes well with mayonnaise or hollandaise sauce. 
Ingredients:
3 salmon fillets, about 350-400g 500g potatoes, peeled & diced 3 tbsp fresh dill leaves (or parsley, tarragon, or a mixture), chopped zest of ½ lemon, finely grated 1 tbsp plain flour, plus more for dusting 2 eggs, beaten 150g dried breadcrumbs 400g asparagus, trimmed of their woody ends oil for frying, e.g. sunflower or light olive mayonnaise, to serve
Method:
Put the potatoes in a pan of salted water, bring to the boil and cook until tender, about 12-15 minutes. Drain, leave to dry out for a few minutes, then mash and leave to cool. While the potatoes are cooking, line your grill tray with a piece of foil and oil it lightly. Put the salmon on, skin side down if there is any. Grill for 6-8 minutes, depending on thickness. Leave the salmon to cool, then flake, discarding any bones and skin. Gently mix the flakes in a bowl with the mash, lemon zest, herbs and 1 tablespooon of flour. Mix in 1 beaten egg. Divide into 8 evenly sized balls, mould into fishcake shapes, dust in a little flour, then chill for 30 minutes (on a non-stick tray or on greaseproof paper). Put the other egg and the breadcrumbs in separate flat dishes. Turn the fishcakes in the egg, then the breadcrumbs to coat. Put the asparagus in a small baking dish. Toss in a little oil, season with salt and pepper and roast for 10-15 minutes, depending on thickness. Heat a thin layer of oil in a large frying pan and fry the fishcakes in for 3-4 minutes on each side on a medium heat, until golden, in batches if needs be. Alternatively you could bake them for about 20 minutes until golden. Serve with a dollop of mayonnaise.