Sausage & potato pasties with buttered greens
Introduction:
I offer up a pasty recipe with a sense of sectarian trepidation. The source of the original pasty being a highly contested debate. With the battle still raging the only true definition is in the crimping.
Ingredients:
1 onion 1 large potato or 2 smaller 1 bay leaf oil for cooking e.g. sunflower or light olive oil 4 herby sausages 1 garlic clove 1 pack puff pastry 1 tbsp wholegrain mustard 2 tbsp plain flour 1 egg 200g spring greens 25g butter chutney, to serve salt & pepper
Method:
Peel and slice the onion. Heat 1 tablespoon of oil in the frying pan. Add the onions. Fry gently for 5 minutes, stirring occasionally until collapsed and softened. Wash and peel the potato(es). Cut into 2cm chunks and pop into a pan of salted water along with the bay leaf. Bring to the boil and cook until tender to the point of a knife, about 8-10 minutes. Drain and discard the bay leaf. While the potato cooks, remove the skins from the sausages and break each one up into 8-10 pieces. Add them to the pan with the onions and cook for a further 8 minutes. Let both the onions and sausages take on some colour and sticky edges. While the onion and sausages cook, peel and finely chop 1 garlic clove. Add the garlic and 3 tablespoons of water to the onions for the last 2 minutes of their cooking time. Crack the egg into a cup and whisk with a fork. Tip the sausage and onion mix into a big bowl. Add the potatoes and mustard. Gently mix together. Leave to cool. Meanwhile, put your oven on to 200˚C/Gas Mark 6. Dust your work surface and rolling pin with flour. Unroll the pastry. Cut it equally in half. Roll each half out into a square, trim the edges away and roll into 2 rough circles, about 30cm by 30cm. Pop back into the fridge for 5 minutes. Divide the sausage mix into 2. Remove the pastry from the fridge. Spoon the mix into the middle of each pastry circle. Brush some beaten egg around the edges of the pastry. Lift the edges up and together into the middle. Crimp them together with your thumb and forefinger until well sealed and you have a classic pasty shape. Place them on the baking tray. Brush with the rest of the egg wash. Bake in your preheated oven for 10 minutes. Then drop the oven temp to 180˚C/Gas 4. Cook for a further 15 minutes until golden brown and piping hot. While the pasties cook, wash the spring greens. Strip the leaves away from the tough stalks. Discard the stalks and roughly shred the greens. When the pasties are nearly ready, heat the butter and 1 tablespoon of oil in a saucepan. Add the greens. Stir until the greens are wilted and cooked through, about 5 minutes. Season well. Serve with the pasties and a blob of chutney on the side.