Sausage and squash toad in the hole with mustard and onion gravy
Introduction:
A take on a traditional toad in the hole, using chipolatas to make the meat go a little further, and squash for an extra portion of veg. The trick to getting a good risen Yorkshire batter is to have your oil good and hot, and not to be tempted to open the oven door too early, or the sharp blast of colder air will cause your batter to sink. Serve the toad and gravy with plenty of seasonal greens.
Ingredients:
oil for frying e.g. sunflower 12 pork chipolata sausages ½ a large squash (approx 600g), peeled & chopped into 3-4cm chunks 2 red onions, peeled & chopped into wedges through the root 150g plain flour 2 eggs 250ml milk 2 tsp wholegrain mustard 50g butter 2 tsp light brown sugar 150g plain flour 2 eggs 300ml milk 1 tbsp balsamic vinegar 2 tbsp Worcester sauce 400ml veg or chicken stock salt & pepper
Method:
Preheat your oven to 200˚C/Gas 7. Make the batter: put the flour and a couple of pinches of salt in a large bowl. Crack in the eggs. Whisk in about 5 tablespoons of milk to form a thick paste, then the rest of the milk, until you have a smooth batter. Leave the batter to rest. Start the gravy: heat 2 tablespoons of oil and the butter in a good sized saucepan. Add the onions and a good pinch of salt. Cook on a very low heat, stirring only occasionally, until the onions are soft and caramelising, approx 30 minutes. Once the onions are soft, add the balsamic vinegar and sugar. Stir well. Add the red wine. Let it gently bubble and reduce for approx 2 minutes. Add the Worcestershire sauce and stock. Bring up to a low boil and bubble until the liquid has reduced by approx one-third. Season to taste once reduced. If the gravy is ready before the toad, remove from the heat and warm through to serve, adding the mustard just before serving. For the toad: Heat 2 tablespoons of oil in a frying pan. Fry the sausages until browned. Transfer them to a 30 x 25cm (or similar) non-stick baking or roasting tin. Add the squash, onions and toss in a little more oil. Roast for 15 minutes. Transfer the sausages and veg to a plate for a moment. Add 2 tablespoons more oil to the dish or tin and heat in the oven for 5 minutes. Pour in the batter. Quickly arrange the sausages, squash and onion on top. Return the dish to the oven for 25-30 minutes, until the batter is golden brown and risen. Don’t be tempted to open the oven during this time, or the batter will sink.