Savoy cabbage thoran with sticky jasmine rice
Introduction:
Cabbage thoran is wonderful, lightly spiced Indian curry originating in Kerala. It can either be served as an accompaniment to other curries or as a main dish with sticky jasmine rice or simple boiled basmati. You don't need to stick with cabbage – this'll make a light, healthy dinner with any of your veg box greens – spinach, chard, kale or even shredded Brussels sprouts. 
Ingredients:
150g jasmine rice 2 tbsp coconut oil 1 onion, finely sliced (or use a shredded leek) 2 tsp black mustard seeds 1 tbsp dried curry leaves 3cm fresh ginger, peeled & finely grated 1-2 red chillies, depending on your preference for heat, or use some dried chilli flakes ½ tsp freshly ground cumin seeds ½ tsp turmeric ½ a very large or 1 small Savoy cabbage, shredded, tough core & ribs removed 50g creamed coconut from a block, chopped or grated handful dried coconut chips/shreds,toasted in a dry frying pan until golden handful fresh coriander leaves (optional) salt & pepper
Method:
Put the rice in a saucepan with twice the volume of water and a good pinch of salt. Bring up to the boil, cover and cook for 10 minutes. Turn off the heat. Leave it covered to let the rice steam while you make the cabbage thoran. Heat the coconut oil, add the onion and fry on a low heat for 10 minutes until softened, stirring now and then to stop it catching. Turn the heat up a little. Add the mustard seeds and curry leaves and fry for about 1 minute, until you hear the seeds start to pop. Add the ginger, chilli, cumin and turmeric and stir for 30 seconds. Then add the cabbage, creamed coconut and 2 tablespoons of water. Season and stir for 1 minute or so to mix the ingredients together, then cover and cook on a lowish heat for about 5 minutes, stirring occasionally, until the cabbage has softened. Add a splash more water if the cabbage starts to catch on the bottom of the pan. Check the seasoning. Scatter over the coconut chips and fresh coriander, if using. Once the cabbage is cooked, fluff up the rice with a fork; all the liquid should be absorbed and the rice sticky and tender.