Scotch eggs
Introduction:
Try using some of our Riverford sausages for this dish – they're already seasoned so you won't need to add any seasoning. Remove the sausage meat from the skins and use to mould around the eggs. If you don't have a deep fat fryer, cook the eggs by heating 3-4cm of oil in a large pan. Use a jam thermometer to test the temperature if you have one, or test by frying a small piece of bread until golden – if the bread takes about a minute to brown, the temperature is right. In this method you'll need to cook the eggs in batches and turn them every so often to cook and brown all sides so they may take a bit longer than 8 mins to cook. 
Ingredients:
150g white bread, crusts removed 6 eggs 1 extra egg, beaten 75g plain flour ½ tsp cayenne 450g sausage meat 2 tsp fresh thyme leaves (optional) oil for frying, e.g. vegetable or sunflower salt & pepper
Method:
Preheat oven to 180˚C/Gas 4. Blitz the bread in a food processor until you have fine breadcrumbs. Place on a baking tray in a shallow layer and bake until lightly toasted and just turning golden (about 6-8 minutes). Remove from the oven and set aside. Place the eggs in a saucepan of water, bring to the boil and cook at a rolling boil for 8-9 minutes, depending on the size of your egg. Transfer immediately to a bowl of cold water and leave to cool, then carefully peel off the shells, keeping the egg intact. Take three shallow bowls or dishes and place the beaten egg in one, the breadcrumbs in another and the flour, seasoned with salt, pepper and cayenne in the third. Put the sausage meat in another bowl. If using plain sausage meat, add the thyme and season well. Split the mixture into six equal pieces. Roll each egg in the seasoned flour, then mould the sausage meat around each egg until completely covered (flour your hands a little if the mixture starts to stick). Make sure all the egg is covered with the meat and any joins are blended together, to prevent the mixture from splitting in the pan. Roll each egg in the beaten egg, then the breadcrumbs to evenly coat. Heat your deep fat fryer to 180˚C/Gas 4. Cook the eggs for 8 minutes, turning once if the oil does not completely cover the eggs. Cook in batches if needs be. Drain on kitchen paper, cool and refrigerate until needed.