Shiitake stir-fry noodles with Chinese omelette & cashews
Introduction:
Colourful, quick and packed with veg, this stir-fry makes for an easy and tasty supper.
Ingredients:
100g kale 1 red pepper 25g ginger 1 garlic clove 1 red chilli 150g shiitake mushrooms oil for frying to a high temperature, e.g. sunflower or light olive 3 eggs 1 pack egg noodles 2 tbsp sesame oil 1 pack kecap manis 1 pack hoisin sauce 50g roasted, salted cashews salt & pepper
Method:
Put a pot of water on to boil. While it’s heating up, strip the kale leaves from their stalks. Discard the stalks and wash the leaves, then finely shred them (the easiest way is to bunch them up, then cut across the bunch with a large knife). Halve, deseed and slice the pepper into 1cm strips. Peel and very finely slice the ginger. Peel and finely slice the garlic. Halve and deseed the chilli and finely slice into rounds. Clean the shiitake mushrooms with a damp piece of kitchen paper or clean cloth. Whisk 3 eggs in a bowl. Add the egg noodles to the pan of boiling water. Cook for 4 minutes, stirring them for the first 1 minute to prevent them clumping together. Drain, then toss in the sesame oil. Heat a thin layer of oil in a wok or non-stick frying pan. Make sure you add enough to cover the pan base well. Add the eggs and gently fry, without stirring, until the eggs are just cooked. Remove the pan from the heat. Carefully slide the omelette on to a plate, using a spatula or fish slice to help it along. Use the spatula to carefully roll the egg up into a cylinder, (a bit like a Swiss roll cake). Drizzle with a little of the kecap manis and keep to one side. Add a splash more oil to the same frying pan or wok. Add the shiitake mushrooms and stir-fry for 2 minutes. Add the pepper, kale, chilli, ginger and garlic. Stir-fry for 2 minutes. Add the pack of hoisin sauce and 4 tablespoons of water (if you like more of a sauce, you could add a little more). Stir for 1 minute. Add a little more kecap manis to taste, and a little ground pepper (you shouldn’t need much, if any, extra salt with the kecap manis, as it’s quite salty anyway, plus you have the salt of the cashews). Remove the pan from the heat. Slice the omelette into rounds. Divide the veg and noodles between 2 serving bowls. Scatter over the omelette pieces and cashews to serve.