Sirloin steak with spinach, garlic & rosemary smashed beans
Introduction:
This is such a simple dish. We have given it a twist by serving the steak on a bed of creamy beans flavoured with rosemary and garlic. You can use any white bean, or keep it more traditional with mashed potato.
Ingredients:
400g baby spinach 1 good sprig rosemary 1 red onion oil for frying e.g. sunflower or light olive 2 garlic cloves 1½ tins cannellini beans 2 sirloin steaks 1 tbsp Dijon mustard salt & pepper
Method:
Put a large pan of water on to boil for the spinach. Wash the spinach well. Pick the leaves off 1 good sized sprig of rosemary. Finely chop them so they resemble breadcrumbs. Peel and finely dice the red onion. Heat 2 tablespoons of oil in a good-sized saucepan. Add the onion and rosemary. Fry for 10 minutes, stirring well. Add a splash of water if it looks like catching at any point. Meanwhile, peel and crush or finely chop 2 garlic cloves. Drain and rinse the cannelini beans. Rinse out the empty tin and refill quarter full with water. After 10 minutes, add the garlic to the onion and stir-fry for 1 minute. Add the beans. Add the water in the bean tin. Bring up to a simmer. Cook for 5 minutes, stirring often; the beans will start to break down a little and become creamy. Give them a little prod here and there with your spoon to help them on their way. Add a splash more water if needed as they cook, but avoid making the mixture too runny. Add the spinach leaves to the pan of boiling water. Cook for 1 minute, until wilted. Drain the spinach into a colander and run under cold water to cool it. Drain, squeeze out excess moisture so you have a small ball of spinach. Chop the leaves. Rub the sirloin steaks with a little oil. Season with salt and pepper. Heat a frying pan until smoking hot. Add the steaks. Fry for 1 minute on each side (cook for longer if you like your meat well done). Transfer them to a plate to rest. Gently mix the beans and spinach together. Reheat, check the seasoning then serve with the steak, dabbed with a little of the mustard, to your own taste.