Smoked cheddar topped pork
Introduction:
Braising veg is a great way to hold in flavour, and works particularly well with carrots. If you don’t have three saucepans, use a deep frying pan for the carrots – but keep a good eye on the liquid. It will evaporate faster, and you may need to add a little more water as they cook. If any element of this dish is ready before the others (we all chop and cook at different rates!), don’t panic; they can all be gently reheated to serve. 
Ingredients:
500g potatoes Salt & pepper 400g carrots 1 tsp bouillon powder 2 apples 50g butter 1 tsp light brown sugar 4 boneless pork loin slices Oil for cooking 100g smoked Cheddar 1 tbsp coarse grain mustard - add to taste A splash of milk (optional)
Method:
Peel and chop the potatoes into 2-3cm dice. Put them in a pan, cover with cold water and add a good pinch of salt. Put them on the hob to heat. Once boiling, they’ll take approx. 10-12 mins to cook until soft. Drain once cooked. Peel the carrots and chop at an angle into 2-3cm pieces. Put the carrots in another pan, one with a lid. Add the bouillon and enough water to just cover the carrots. Bring to a low boil, cover and leave to simmer for approx. 15-20 mins, depending how large you’ve chopped them. Keep an eye on the pan and stir now and then. Put your grill on a medium-high heat. Into a small saucepan, peel and coarsely grate the apples, discarding the cores. Add ¼ of the butter, the sugar and 2 tbsp water. Gently heat the apples until they collapse into a rough sauce. Add a little more water if the sauce starts to look too dry. Meanwhile, lay a piece of foil on your grill tray. Rub the pork with a little oil and season. Lay the pork on the foil. Grill for 2 mins. Coarsely grate the smoked Cheddar while they grill. Turn the pork over. Grill for a further 1-2 mins or so, until cooked through. Spoon the apple sauce over each pork steak, then top with the smoked Cheddar. Grill until the smoked Cheddar is golden and melted. Mash the cooked and drained potatoes with the mustard, some salt and pepper and remaining butter (you could add a splash of milk too). Check the carrots are tender (drain off any excess liquid). Serve the pork with the potato mash and carrots, drizzling any juices from the grill pan over the pork.