Southern baked chicken with sunflower slaw & smoky sweet potato wedges
Introduction:
Our take on a takeaway classic, you know which one we mean! Our spicing’s possibly slightly different to the average takeaway, but we think it’s better! Plus you know exactly where your chicken has come from and that it’s had a good life.
Ingredients:
2 chicken thighs 2 chicken drumsticks 1 garlic clove 80g mayonnaise 1 tbsp Dijon mustard 1 tsp paprika ¼ tsp turmeric 50g breadcrumbs 1 tsp dried oregano 1 tsp dried thyme 500g sweet potato ½ tsp smoked paprika ¼ cabbage 1 carrot ½ red onion 3 tbsp sunflower seeds 15g parsley 1 lemon olive oil salt & pepper
Method:
Preheat oven to 210˚C/Gas Mark 6. Peel the skin off the chicken thighs and drumsticks. Peel and finely chop or crush 1 garlic clove. In a shallow bowl, mix the mayonnaise, garlic, Dijon mustard, paprika and turmeric. Mix the breadcrumbs, dried thyme, dried oregano and a good seasoning of salt and pepper in another dish. Lightly grease a baking tray with a little oil. Turn and coat each piece of chicken in the mayonnaise, then roll them in the breadcrumbs to coat, placing them on the baking tray when done. Bake for 15 minutes. Meanwhile, wash and chop the sweet potato into 3-4cm wedges, keeping the skins on. Mix the smoked paprika with 2 tablespoons of oil. In a baking dish or tin, toss the potatoes with the paprika oil and some salt and pepper to season. Bake the chicken and sweet potatoes for about 30 minutes,until the potatoes are tender and starting to caramelise, the chicken is cooked through (no pink juices remain) and the breadcrumbs on the outside are golden and crispy. f the chicken needs a little longer than the potatoes, remove them from the oven, they’ll keep for a little while. Meanwhile, make the slaw: shred a quarter of the cabbage, removing any tough core and ribs. Peel and coarsely grate the carrot. Peel and very finely slice half the red onion. Mix all 3 in a large bowl. Wash half the bag of parsley and shake dry. Chop the leaves. Add to the veg with the sunflower seeds, a good squeeze of lemon juice, salt and pepper and 2 tablespoons of olive oil. Check the taste and add more of all if needed. Serve with chicken with the slaw and sweet potato wedges.