Spiced lamb flatbreads with tzatziki salad
Introduction:
The lamb flatbreads are both moreish and Moorish. When you transfer the cooled lamb into the breads make sure you scrape in all the fat too; it will carry plenty of flavour and warm spicing with it. The dough is pretty well behaved and doesn’t require laborious kneading like a bread dough; a few minutes is fine. If it feels too wet and sticky as you knead, lightly dust your hands with flour and continue until it feels workable. If it feels too dry, wet your hands and continue working the mix until it feels right. 
Ingredients:
200g self-raising flour – reserve 50g for dusting olive oil salt & pepper 300g lamb mince 1 tbsp harissa 1 tsp ground cumin 1 tsp smoked paprika ½ tsp ground cinnamon ½ tsp dried oregano 20g pine nuts 1 lemon 1 garlic clove 7g fresh mint leaves 150g yogurt ½ cucumber 1 shallot 50g mixed salad leaves
Method:
Weigh and reserve 50g of flour for dusting later. Tip the remaining 150g into a bowl. Add 2 tbsp (30ml) olive oil, 65ml warm water (65ml water weighs 65g, if this helps) and a good pinch of salt. Mix and knead the dough well for 2 mins. Divide into 4 equally sized balls. Place them in the fridge to rest. Heat 2 tbsp oil in a frying pan. Fry the lamb with a good pinch of salt for 4-5 mins, until broken up and browned. Tip in the harissa, ground cumin, smoked paprika, ground cinnamon, dried oregano, pine nuts and 2 tbsp water. Cook for a further 2 mins. Taste and adjust the seasoning with salt, pepper and a squeeze of lemon. Transfer it to a plate then the fridge to help it to cool quickly. Leave for 20 mins. Meanwhile, peel and finely chop the garlic clove. Finely slice the mint leaves. Mix the garlic and mint into the yogurt. Season with salt, pepper and a squeeze of lemon juice. Take the half cucumber and split it, lengthways. Use the tip of a teaspoon to scrape out and discard the soft, seedy core. Cut into a chunky dice. Peel and finely slice the shallot. Preheat your oven to 180˚C/Gas 4. Remove the dough from the fridge. Dust the work surface and roll each ball into a 20cm disc. Divide the lamb mix between them, leaving a border of approx. 1cm around the edges. Fold each disc in half and pinch the edges together to seal. Dust with a little more flour and lightly roll each one out a bit more. It doesn’t matter if a bit of the filling bursts out. Heat a little oil in the frying pan. Fry a flatbread over a medium heat for 1-2 mins on each side, until golden. Repeat the process with the others. If your pan can fit more than one at a time, all the better. Place them on a baking tray in the oven for 5 mins, while you make the salad. Mix the salad leaves, shallot and cucumber together. Spoon over the tzatziki dressing. Chop a little more mint as a garnish if you like. Serve the warm flatbreads with the salad on the side.