Spring vegetable rolls with toasted sesame dipping sauce
Introduction:
Our Riverford chilli sauce is a good alternative to this dipping sauce if you prefer. If you can't get spring roll wrappers or prefer not to deep fat fry, use filo pastry and bake in the oven. This filling is very adaptable: as the season progresses, try using different green veg, e.g. spring onions, beans or sprouted seeds. 
Ingredients:
100g rice noodles, like udon or vermicelli 1 tbsp sesame oil 2 tbsp vegetable oil 2 tsp ginger, freshly grated 1 fresh green chilli, finely chopped 3-4 leaves wild garlic, shredded (or use 2 garlic cloves, finely chopped) ½ leek, shredded 150g purple sprouting broccoli, cut into small, even pieces 150g spring greens, shredded, tough stalks removed 1 tbsp soy sauce 1 tbsp rice wine vinegar pack rice spring roll wrappers or filo sheets vegetable oil for frying or brushing for the sauce: 2 tbsp soy sauce 1½ tsp rice wine vinegar pinch of sugar 1 red chilli, finely chopped 1 tbsp sesame seeds, toasted in a dry frying pan until golden a few fresh coriander leaves
Method:
Cook the noodles according to the packet instructions. Drain, put in a bowl and toss in the sesame oil, then leave to one side. Heat the oil in a large frying pan or wok and fry the ginger, chilli and dried garlic (if using) for a couple of minutes on a medium heat, so the garlic does not burn. Add the leeks and purple sprouting broccoli and fry for a couple of minutes. Add the spring greens and wild garlic if using, soy sauce and rice wine vinegar and fry, stirring constantly, until the greens have wilted. Add the cooked noodles and stir to combine. If you are using spring roll wrappers, cook them according to the packet instructions (they usually need soaking quickly in water to soften). As they are quite thin, layer two together and fill with a spoonful of the greens, folding in the sides to seal and rolling to make a cigar shape. You can then either fry them in a deep fat fryer until golden, or serve them as they are, just warm. To make the sauce, mix all of the ingredients together in a small bowl and serve alongside the warm spring rolls.