Spring cabbage and onion tart
Introduction:
There are times when it's nice to do something a bit more fancy with your cabbage, and this sturdy vegetarian tart is how: some fairly humble ingredients produce a glorious result. Caraway and cabbage are natural bedfellows. You could also thrown in some cooked smoky bacon lardons if you're not vegetarian. This is good both warm and at room temperature. 
Ingredients:
175g plain flour pinch salt 1 tsp caster sugar 125g cold unsalted butter, cut into small cubes about 3 tbsp cold water 1 tbsp olive oil ½ tsp caraway seeds 325g spring or pointed cabbage, shredded 325g potatoes, peeled & finely sliced (use new potatoes when in season, don’t bother to peel these though) 4-6 spring onions, sliced 125g crumbly full-flavoured cheese e.g. Wensleydale, crumbled 375ml crème fraîche 3 eggs salt & pepper
Method:
To make the pastry, put the flour, salt and sugar in a food processor and blitz briefly. Add the butter and blitz until the mixture resembles fine breadcrumbs. Gradually add the water and pulse until the mixture combines into a dough. Roll out on a floured work surface and line a 23cm flan tin or dish. Cover with clingfilm and chill for 30 minutes. Heat the olive oil in a large saucepan and add the caraway seeds. Fry gently for a minute, then add the cabbage and fry for 4-5 minutes, or until softened. Boil the potatoes in a large pan of salted boiling water for 3-4 minutes. Drain. Preheat oven to 180°C/Gas 4. Remove the flan dish from the fridge, take off the cling film and line the pastry with baking parchment or foil. Fill with ceramic baking beans or uncooked rice. Bake for 15 minutes (it’s easier to handle the dish if you place it on a baking tray). Remove baking beans and paper or foil, then bake for another 5-10 minutes (don’t let it go brown). In a large bowl, mix together the cabbage, potato, spring onions and most of the cheese (save a couple of tablespoons). In a separate bowl, beat the crème fraîche with the eggs and season well. Fill the pastry case with the cabbage and potato mixture, spreading it out evenly. Pour in the egg mixture and sprinkle over the remaining cheese. Bake for about 35-45 minutes until just set and lightly browned.