Spring vegetable risotto
Introduction:
This risotto can be made with one, two or a mixture of the listed vegetables. It's a very good way of using up odds and ends from your box. If you're including spinach, you'll need a little less stock, as it releases moisture during cooking. To make this vegetarian, substitute the Parmesan for another hard cheese. 
Ingredients:
1.5 litres chicken or veg stock, preferably homemade 1 tbsp olive oil 2 tbsp butter 1 onion, finely chopped 1 leek, finely chopped 1 celery stalk, finely chopped 1 garlic clove, crushed 220g Arborio rice 150ml vermouth or white wine 500-600g mixed vegetables - choose from: courgettes, diced, French beans, chopped, asparagus spears, sliced, fresh peas, shelled, broad beans, blanched briefly in boiling water, spinach leaves 1 tbsp Parmesan grated, plus extra to serve 1 tbsp fresh parsley, chives or spring onions, chopped salt & pepper
Method:
Bring the stock to simmering point in a pan. Heat the olive oil and half the butter in a large, deep frying pan and add the onion, leek and celery. Cook gently for about 5 minutes, until soft, then stir in the garlic. Add the rice and turn up the heat a little. Season well and cook for a minute, stirring so the rice is coated with the fat. Add the vermouth or white wine and cook, stirring, until it has evaporated. Start adding the hot stock a ladleful at a time, keeping the mixture at a simmer and adding more stock when each addition has been absorbed. Add the vegetables according to how long they take to cook: courgettes, French beans and asparagus should go in 5 minutes after starting to add the stock; peas 10 minutes (add them at the end if using frozen ones); and broad beans and spinach 15 minutes. After the rice has been cooking for 15–18 minutes, check it: when it is done, it should be tender but still slightly chewy. The whole dish should have a creamy appearance. Take the pan off the heat and stir in the remaining butter and the Parmesan. Season to taste, then cover and let it sit for 5 minutes. Sprinkle with the herbs or spring onions and extra Parmesan, then serve straight away.