Spring green and Parmesan tart
Introduction:
This is a straightforward and delectable vegetarian main which also works with winter greens. If you'd like to cut corners on a weeknight, just start with shop-bought pastry: not quite as satisfying but still pretty good! It's works well both warm and cold and will last well in the fridge for a day. Eat alongside a crisp green salad with a sharp vinaigrette dressing, or a pile of quick-cooked green beans. 
Ingredients:
for the pastry: 250g plain flour, plus extra for dusting 1 tsp fine sea salt 150g cold unsalted butter, chopped 1 egg, lightly beaten 1 tbsp milk for the filling: 1 large onion, diced small knob of butter 300g spring greens, rib stalks cut out 4 eggs, lightly beaten, plus 1 egg yolk 250ml double cream 100g Parmesan or vegetarian equivalent, finely grated a few wild garlic leaves (optional) salt & pepper
Method:
For the pastry: In a large mixing bowl, rub the flour, salt and butter together with your fingertips until it resembles fine breadcrumbs. Add the rest of the ingredients, bringing together into a smooth dough with your fingertips. Wrap in clingfilm and chill for at least 30 minutes, ideally longer. Preheat oven to 180˚C/Gas 4. Lightly grease your tart tin with butter. Roll out the pastry into a 3mm thick circle and fit into the tin. Press firmly but gently into the grooves. Fold the excess pastry over the top of the tin and roll firmly over the top with your rolling pin to cut off any excess. Prick the base several times with a fork, then chill the pastry for 15 minutes. Cut a piece of baking paper or foil large enough to cover the base and sides of the tin. Line with ceramic baking beans or dried pulses, making sure the beans and paper are snugly pushed into the sides of the tin. Bake for 15 minutes. Remove the beans and paper, then bake for another 10-15 minutes. The base should be dry and crisp and the top of the pastry edges golden. Leave to cool completely. For the filling: Cook the onion very gently in butter for about 10 minutes, stirring now and then, until soft without colouring. Leave to cool. Boil the spring green leaves in lightly salted water for 6-8 minutes, until tender. Drain, plunge into very cold water and leave to cool. Drain, squeeze out any excess liquid, then finely shred the leaves. Mix in a jug with the onion, eggs, cream, Parmesan, shredded wild garlic leaves if using and season (not too much salt as the Parmesan is salty). Pour into the pastry case, making sure all the green bits are covered by the egg so they don’t burn. Bake for 30 minutes or so until just set and golden. Serve just warm or at room temperature.