Squash & mixed bean goulash with spelt tagliatelle
Introduction:
This is a rich tasting but healthy dish, with a mildly spiced paprika flavour.
Ingredients:
1 large or 2 small onions oil for frying e.g. sunflower or light olive ⅓-½ squash 1 red pepper 1 large or 2 small garlic cloves handful parsley goulash spice pot containing: ½ tbsp paprika ½ tsp smoked paprika 1 tsp dried thyme ¼ tsp ground ginger little grated nutmeg 100g passata ½ tin mixed beans 200g wholewheat spelt tagliatelle 2 tbsp soured cream salt & pepper
Method:
Put a large pan of well-salted water on to boil for the pasta. Peel, halve and finely slice the onion(s). Heat 2 tablespoons of oil in a large, wide saucepan (or deep frying pan). Add the onion. Fry on a low heat for 5 minutes, stirring now and then to stop it catching. As soon as the onion goes on the heat, chop third-half off the thinner top part of the squash, depending how skinny the top bit is (you want about 250-275g unpeeled weight). Cut off the skin. Chop the flesh into small 1-2cm dice. Deseed and chop the pepper to a similar size. Add the squash and pepper to the onion as soon as they’re prepared. Cook for 10 more minutes, stirring regularly to stop it catching. Meanwhile, peel and finely chop or crush 1 large or 2 small garlic cloves. Wash the parsley and shake dry. Once the veg has cooked for 10 minutes, add the goulash spice pot, a fine grating of nutmeg (not more than quarter teaspoon) and the garlic. Stir for 1 minute. Add the passata. Refill the pot twice with water and add that. Drain and rinse the mixed beans. Add half of them to the veg (save the rest for use in other meals). Bring the pan up to a low boil and cook while you boil the pasta. Keep an eye on the pan and top up with a little extra water if needs be to prevent it from becoming too dry. Add the pasta to the boiling pan of water. Cook for about 10 minutes, until just tender. Chop the parsley leaves in the meantime. Drain the pasta once cooked and toss with the veg. Season with salt and pepper to taste. Stir in most of the parsley. Divide the pasta and vegetable sauce between 2 serving bowls. Top with a good dollop of the soured cream and the remaining parsley. As you eat the soured cream will mix with the pasta and veg.