Squash & tomato dosa with green coconut relish
Introduction:
The trick to achieving a thin dosa pancake is to tip the pan in a swift, steady roll as soon as the batter hits it. You should be able to guide and swirl the batter into an even layer. We’ve given you more batter than you need so you can have a few experimental runs. I find the first attempt always ends up as a sacrifice to the god of pancakes.
Ingredients:
75g rice flour 50g chickpea flour 3 tbsp desiccated coconut 1 medium butternut squash 1 red onion oil for frying, e.g. sunflower or light olive 3 tomatoes 30g fresh coriander 1 large or 2 small shallot(s) 1 green chilli 3 garlic cloves 1 tsp turmeric 2 tsp garam masala 1 tsp cumin seeds ½ tsp dried chilli flakes 1 tbsp coconut oil salt & pepper
Method:
Preheat oven to 200˚C/Gas Mark 6. Place the rice and chickpea flour in a large mixing bowl. Slowly whisk in 220ml of cold water until you have a thin batter. Season with a good pinch of salt. Leave to rest in the fridge for 20 minutes. Put an inch of water in the bottom of the steamer or pan and bring to the boil. Spread the desiccated coconut out on a small plate and sit it in the steamer, steam for 10 minutes until moist and fluffy. Alternatively use the sieve trick (see above). Leave to cool. While the coconut steams, peel the squash and chop into roughly even, 2cm cubes. Peel the red onion and cut into 12 even-sized wedges. Place them both into the roasting tray. Coat with oil and season well with salt and pepper. Put into the oven to roast for 15 minutes. Meanwhile, roughly chop the tomatoes. Wash the coriander, shake dry and chop roughly. Peel the shallot(s). Deseed and chop the green chilli. Break open 2 of the garlic cloves with the heel of your hand, peel the other one and chop it finely. After 15 minutes, remove the squash and add the chopped tomatoes, turmeric, garam masala, cumin, chilli flakes and the 2 smashed garlic cloves. Stir well and return to the oven for another 10-15 minutes, or until tender and fragrant. Meanwhile, make the relish by blending the shallot, coriander, rehydrated coconut, green chilli, coconut oil and remaining chopped garlic clove into a coarse paste, almost like pesto. Add a dash of plain oil if it seems a little dry. Alternatively, smash it all together in a pestle and mortar or finely chop everything and mix it together. Season with salt. Remove the dosa batter from the fridge and re-whisk it. Heat your shallow frying/crêpe pan with a thin layer of oil. Tip in a small ladle of the batter and swirl it round into a thin layer. Fry for a minute or so until golden brown, flip it and brown the other side. Repeat until you have 4 good dosas. Remove the garlic skins from the tray of squash. Divide the squash mixture between the 4 dosas and roll them loosely up. Serve with a generous blob of coconut relish.