Squash & sheep’s cheese gnocchi with garlic & rosemary
Introduction:
Don’t be put off by the inclusion of a whole bulb of garlic in this recipe. By poaching the cloves the pungent notes are softened and the whole thing becomes sweet and soft. They can then be lightly browned in the pan until slightly crisp and chewy. A process that would render them bitter if cooked from raw.
Ingredients:
1 butternut squash light olive oil 1 whole garlic bulb 75g Wootton white cheese 50g rocket 10g rosemary 1 lemon 250g potato gnocchi 25g butter salt & pepper
Method:
Put a large pan of salted water on to boil. Preheat your oven to 220˚C/Gas Mark 8. Break the garlic bulb into its separate cloves. Peel each one but keep them whole. Pop them in the water and simmer them gently for 20 minutes. Peel the squash, split it in half and remove the soft seedy core with a spoon. Chop the flesh into 1½ cm chunks. Put them in a roasting tray. Oil and season well with salt and pepper. Put the squash in the oven to roast for about 25 minutes, until tender and slightly coloured at the edges. While the squash roasts, wash the rocket and shake or spin it dry. Coarsely grate the sheep’s cheese. Zest and juice the lemon. Strip the leaves from a large stalk of rosemary and finely chop them. Check the garlic, it is ready when it gives easily to the tip of a knife. Remove them from the pan, keeping the water boiling. Split the larger cloves into quarter’s, lengthways, split the smaller ones in half. Drop the gnocchi into the water. Boil for 2-3 minutes, or until they begin to float. Drain and keep to one side. While the gnocchi cook, dress the rocket with olive oil, a dash of lemon juice and a pinch of salt and pepper to your taste. Put a frying pan on to heat. Add the butter and let it begin to foam. Add the garlic cloves and fry on a medium heat for 2 minutes until starting to colour. Add the gnocchi and chopped rosemary. Fry for a further 2 minutes before adding the squash. Cook for 1 more minute. Add two thirds of the sheep’s cheese and a dash of lemon juice. Now would be the time to add a handful of rocket if the fancy takes you (see cook’s note). Toss everything together and check the seasoning. Divide between 2 bowls. Garnish with a sprinkle of lemon zest, the remaining cheese and a few turns of pepper. Serve the rocket on the side.