Spiced squash & butterbeans
Introduction:
When you fry the squash and peppers, it’s good to get some colour on them, to add extra flavour to the dish. Keep an eye on them and stir now and again to stop them catching too much.
Ingredients:
600g butternut squash oil for frying e.g. sunflower 1 tsp black mustard seeds 1 tsp cumin seeds 1 heaped tbsp curry leaves 1 tsp black onion seeds 1 red pepper salt & pepper 1 shallot 2 tomatoes 1 lemon 2 garlic cloves 25g ginger ½ tbsp garam masala 1 tin butterbeans 15g fresh coriander 2 tbsp tomato chutney 150g yogurt
Method:
Peel and chop the squash into approx. 2cm pieces. Heat 2 tbsp oil in a frying pan. Add the black mustard seeds, cumin seeds, curry leaves and the black onion seeds and fry for 1-2 mins, until the mustard seeds pop. Add the squash and cook on a low-medium heat while you continue. Deseed and dice the pepper into 2cm pieces. Add that to the squash with a pinch of salt. Gently fry for 12 mins, stirring occasionally, until the squash is lightly golden. While the squash cooks, peel and finely slice the shallot. Deseed and dice the tomatoes. Put the shallot and half the tomato in a small bowl. Add a good squeeze of lemon juice and a pinch of salt. Mix and set aside. Peel and finely grate 2 garlic cloves and the ginger. Once the squash is lightly coloured, add the ginger and all but 1 tsp of garlic (keep this aside for later). Cook for 1 min. Stir in the garam masala, remaining tomato and 100ml water. Cover and cook for 5-6 mins, until the squash is tender. Meanwhile, drain and rinse the butterbeans. Heat ½ tbsp oil in a saucepan. Cook the remaining garlic on a low heat for 1 min, until soft. Add the butterbeans, 1 tbsp water and a squeeze of lemon juice. Add a pinch of salt, then heat gently for 2 mins. Chop the coriander leaves. Stir half into the tomato salad. Taste and add more seasoning if needed. Stir the chutney into the yogurt. Once the squash is ready, adjust the seasoning. Divide the squash and butterbeans between 2 shallow bowls. Scatter over the remaining coriander. Serve with the tomato salad and yogurt.