Squash, chard and Stilton pithivier
Introduction:
These sumptuous vegetarian pastry parcels can be made in advance and kept in the fridge until the final bake. If you want to be extra cheesy for Valentine's Day, make these in a heart shapes instead of a traditional pithivier circles. Nothing more is needed for a celebratory dinner except a green salad. 
Ingredients:
500g squash, peeled & cut into 3cm dice olive oil, for drizzling pinch nutmeg, grated knob of butter 2 small shallots or ½ small onion, finely sliced 200g chard, washed, leaves shredded & stalks finely chopped 50ml white wine 100g soft cheese e.g. ricotta or cream cheese 80g Cropwell Bishop Stilton, crumbled 400g ready made all butter puff pastry, defrosted if frozen milk, for brushing 1 egg, beaten salt & pepper
Method:
Preheat oven to 200˚C/Gas 6. Place the squash in a baking dish, drizzle with olive oil and roast in the oven for 30 minutes, until tender. Remove from the oven and sprinkle with freshly grated nutmeg. With a fork, lightly mash half of the squash. Leave to one side. While the squash is roasting, melt a small knob of butter in a pan, add the shallot or onion and fry gently for a few minutes, until the onion is soft. Add the chard stalks and fry for a couple of minutes. Add the white wine. Simmer for a few minutes until the wine has almost evaporated. Add the chard leaves. Fry until the leaves have just wilted. Season well with salt and pepper. Remove from the heat, leave to cool. Stir in the soft cheese and half the Stilton. Cut the puff pastry into four equal pieces. On a lightly floured board or work surface, roll out each piece of pastry until thin enough to cut into a circle, about 20cm in diameter (use a side plate as a template if you like). Place two of the pastry circles on a greased baking tray. Prick with a fork. Spoon the mashed squash into the middle, then the remaining diced squash on top, followed by the chard mixture. Sprinkle over the remaining Stilton. Brush the edges of the pastry with milk. Place the other pastry circles on top, stretch it over the veg and press the edges down to seal with the bottom pastry pieces. Lightly score a spiral pattern in the pastry for a traditional pithivier pattern if you like (be careful not to cut through the pastry, use the back of your knife). Brush with egg and bake for 30 minutes, until golden.