Steak & blue cheese salad with green beans, tomatoes & walnut dressing
Introduction:
Always, always rest a steak after cooking; at least 3-4 minutes. It allows the fibres of the meat to relax, giving you a more tender steak. Turn the sliced steak in any juices before serving so you’re not wasting any precious flavour.
Ingredients:
2 sirloin steaks 1 bunch radishes 250g green beans oil for frying e.g. sunflower 25g butter 2 tablespoons cider vinegar 15g chervil 40g walnuts ½ tablespoon Dijon mustard olive oil 50g salad leaves 100g blue cheese
Method:
Remove the steaks from the fridge & leave them out to come to room temperature. Remove the tops from the radishes, wash them before cutting large ones into quarters & smaller ones in half. Trim & finely slice the green beans. Cook in boiling water for approx. 2 mins until just tender. Drain & cool immediately in cold water to stop the cooking process & lock in the colour. Give the saucepan a wipe clean & return to the heat with 1 tbsp cooking oil. Get the oil very hot, add the radishes with a good pinch of salt & fry vigorously for 1 min before adding half the butter, half the vinegar (1 tbsp) & 3 tbsp water. Cook on a high heat stirring often for 4-5 mins until the liquid has reduced down into a glossy, buttery glaze. The radishes should be partly cooked but still have a slight bite to them. Remove from the heat & keep to one side. Toast the walnuts in a dry frying pan on a medium heat for a few mins, until lightly coloured - careful not to burn them. Tip onto a board & coarsely chop. Make the dressing by mixing the mustard & remaining vinegar together. Whisk in 2-3 tbsp olive oil, a little bit at a time, until you have an emulsified dressing. Stir in the walnuts & season with salt & pepper. Return the frying pan to the heat with 1 tbsp oil. Season the steaks with salt & pepper on both sides. Get the oil very hot, fry steaks for 1 min a side. Add the remaining butter halfway through cooking -they should be nicely browned. Remove the steaks & let them rest for 4-5 mins while you finish the salad. Add the cooled beans to the pan of warm radishes & mix in finely chopped chervil leaves. Divide the salad leaves between 2 plates, put on the beans & radishes then crumble blue cheese on top. Slice the steaks into ½cm strips. Scatter the steak across the salad & spoon across the walnut dressing.