stuffed peppers with chorizo, corn and greens
Introduction:
Roasted peppers filled with chorizo and fragrant brown and wild rice, with wilted greens and sweetcorn on the side. Although calling for a few preparatory steps, this makes a delectable and healthy meal. Use whatever greens you have in your box for this – chard, spinach, spring greens or kale. 
Ingredients:
100g wild rice 100g brown basmati rice 4 red peppers olive oil 1 large red or white onion, finely diced 2 garlic cloves, finely chopped 4 sprigs thyme 1 tsp ground cumin 4 sweetcorn cobs, kernels cut off splash dry sherry 400ml veg stock 200g cooking chorizo, removed from its skin & chopped or crumbled 200g chard leaves, finely shredded salt & pepper
Method:
Cook the wild rice in a large pan of boiling water (it will take about 40 minutes and you’ll need to add the basmati after 15 minutes, so time it). Preheat oven to 190°C/Gas 5. Cut the tops off the peppers and put the peppers cut side up in a baking dish with the tops. Drizzle with a little olive oil. Roast for 20 minutes. Add the basmati to the wild rice and carry on boiling both for 25 minutes. While the peppers are roasting and rice cooking, heat 2 tablespoons of oil in a large pan. Add the onion and fry very gently for 10 minutes, until soft and translucent. Stir now and then. Add the garlic, thyme leaves, cumin and sweetcorn. Turn the heat up and fry for another couple of minutes, to brown the sweetcorn. Add the sherry and stir to deglaze the pan. Add the stock and season. Bring to the boil, reduce the heat and simmer for 20 minutes, until the corn is tender. Keep an eye on the liquid and top up with a splash of water or more stock if needed. While the sweetcorn is cooking, fry the chorizo for a few minutes to brown. Drain the rice, then stir into the chorizo. Season, then stuff the mixture into the peppers. Bake for another 10 minutes. Add the chard leaves to the sweetcorn and stir for a few minutes to wilt the leaves. Check the seasoning. Serve with the roasted peppers.