Sweet potato jacket & black bean chilli with soured cream & homemade tortilla chips
Introduction:
The trick for a good jacket potato is to salt the skin at the start – it helps to dry it out and achieve the desired crispness. A sweet potato will cook in less time than a normal spud, so check after the first 30 minutes. The size of the potatoes will affect the timing too.
Ingredients:
2 large or more smaller sweet potatoes plain oil, e,g, sunflower 1 onion 2 garlic cloves 1 red chilli 1 tin black beans 1 tin chopped tomatoes 1 tsp ground cumin 1 tsp dried oregano ¼ tsp cinnamon 1 tsp sweet smoked paprika 4 tortillas ¼ tsp cayenne pepper, optional dollop soured cream salt & pepper
Method:
Preheat oven to 200˚C/Gas Mark 6. Scrub each sweet potato well, sprinkle the wet skin with salt and give it a rub to coat. Place the sweet potatoes directly on the oven shelf and bake until they can be easily pierced with the tip of a knife, about 45 minutes, but check after 30 minutes. Peel and finely slice the onion. Peel and finely chop the garlic. Deseed and finely slice the chilli. Heat 2 tablespoons of oil in a large saucepan. Add the onion and fry gently for 10 minutes until translucent, stirring occasionally. Add the garlic and chilli. Continue cooking for 2 minutes, until fragrant. Drain the black beans and add to the pan with the tomatoes, cumin, oregano, cinnamon and paprika. half fill one of the tins with water and add that too, then stir to combine. Season with salt and pepper, bring to a simmer and cook gently for 30 minutes. Meanwhile, brush 4 tortillas on both sides with oil. Cut each into 8 wedges and sprinkle with a little salt. Lay them evenly on a baking tray and cook in the oven for 4 minutes. Turn over and cook for a further 4 minutes, or until just starting to colour and crisp. You may need to do this in batches, depending on your oven space. When the potatoes are ready check the chilli and adjust the seasoning to your taste. If you want more heat add some cayenne pepper, a pinch at a time as it can be very hot. To serve, split the sweet potatoes open and divide them between 2 plates. Spoon over the chilli and top with a blob of soured cream. Stack the tortillas at the side.