Sweet potato and greens filo parcel
Introduction:
Light but filling vegetarian packages of filo pastry. These are a little fiddly to make, but bursting with wonderful flavour and texture. If you have Savoy cabbage or kale in your box, try using that instead of spinach or chard. If you don't have sweet potatoes, double the amount of normal potato. When using filo, cover it with a damp tea towel and take one sheet out at a time to stop it drying out. If a parcel splits, cut a little piece from another strip, brush with butter and patch it. 
Ingredients:
500g sweet potatoes, peeled & diced 500g potatoes, peeled & diced olive oil 200g spinach or chard washed, trimmed of stems 6 tbsp yoghurt 400g tin chickpeas, drained & rinsed 3-4 garlic cloves, chopped 3 tbsp lemon juice 1 tsp cayenne 1 tsp paprika 1 tsp ground ginger 2 tsp ground cumin ½ tsp ground cinnamon 60g sultanas 200g almonds, toasted & chopped large handful fresh coriander, chopped ready made filo pastry sheets
Method:
Preheat oven to 180°C/Gas 4. Put the sweet potatoes and potatoes in a roasting tin, toss in olive oil to coat and roast for 30-40 minutes, until tender. Steam or blanch the spinach or chard in boiling water for 2 minutes or so until wilted (chard will take slightly longer than spinach, about 3-4 minutes). Refresh in a bowl of cold water, drain and leave to one side to cool, then roughly chop. In a blender, blitz the yoghurt, chickpeas, lemon juice, garlic, cayenne until smooth. Mix in a large bowl with the cooled potatoes, greens, paprika, ginger, cumin, cinnamon, sultanas, almonds and coriander. Season well. Remove the filo pastry from the packet, unroll and cover with a damp tea towel to stop it drying out. On a board, place one piece of filo and brush with melted butter. If large sheets, cut in half. (You can make smaller versions too if you wish, for a starter). Place another sheet on top at 90 degrees to the first and brush with butter again. Do the same with a third sheet. Place some of the mixture in the middle of the sheets. Fold the pastry over to form a sealed parcel. Brush again with melted butter and carefully lift onto a lightly greased baking sheet. Repeat until you have 4 parcels. Bake in the oven for about 15-20 minutes until the pastry is crisp and golden.