Sweetcorn burritos
Introduction:
This sounds like a long list of ingredients, but many are from the store cupboard. The burritos are very easy to put together: a mix of sweet corn, rich bean sauce and soothing guacamole. This recipe will make 8 burritos; they're quite filling so depending on appetite, two will probably be enough for an adult. 
Ingredients:
2 cobs sweetcorn, husks removed oil for frying, e.g. vegetable 2 small onions, red or white, chopped 2 tsp ground cumin 2 tsp ground coriander leaves from 2 sprigs fresh thyme (or use 1 tsp dried) 2x400g tins red kidney or pinto beans, drained & rinsed 400g beef or soya mince 1 tsp hot chilli powder (or use a chopped fresh chilli) ½ tsp ground cumin ½ tsp ground coriander 2 ripe avocados 1 fresh chilli, deseeded & finely chopped juice ½ lime, or more to taste a few drops tabasco handful fresh coriander leaves, chopped 8 soft flour tortillas 150g Cheddar, grated 250ml soured cream salt & pepper
Method:
Preheat oven to 180°C/Gas 4. In a pan of boiling water, cook the sweetcorn for 8-10 minutes. Drain and leave until cool enough to cut the kernels off; use a sharp knife, hold the cob vertically and cut down and round to remove them. While the corn is cooking, start making the refried beans. Heat a little oil in a saucepan, add the onion and cook for a few minutes to soften. Add the cumin, coriander, thyme and beans and just enough water to cover. Season, bring to the boil, then reduce the heat and simmer for about 10 minutes. Roughly blitz in a food processor or with a hand held blender, until the sauce is quite smooth but still with a few lumps. Reheat the beans in the pan and gently cook for another 10-15 minutes or so until the moisture has reduced and you have a soft but not too wet a consistency. Stir every now and then so the beans don’t burn on the bottom of the pan. Remove from the heat, check seasoning and leave to one side. To make the mince, heat a little oil in a frying pan, add the mince and fry until just cooked through. Add the spices and sweetcorn kernels and cook for a couple more minutes and season. To make the guacamole, cut the avocados in half, remove the stone and scoop out the flesh with a spoon. Roughly mash the flesh in a bowl with a fork, add chilli, lime, tabasco and coriander leaves and mix together. To assemble the burritos, lay out the tortillas. Sprinkle some of the grated cheese down the middle of the tortilla, then repeat with some of the refried beans, mince and guacamole. Fold the two sides of the tortilla over the mixture to the middle to make a fat sausage shape (it will remain open at each end), then seal with a cocktail stick. Place the burritos on a baking tray and cook in the oven for about 10-15 minutes, until the tortilla is turning golden and is crispy on top. Serve with a dollop of soured cream on top, with a green salad.