Sweet and sour pepper tart with basil custard
Introduction:
This is based on a simple tart that is often served as a starter, but it would work just as well for any occasion. 
Ingredients:
for the pastry: 175g plain flour 1 tsp caster sugar pinch salt 125g cold unsalted butter, cubed about 3 tbsp cold water for the filling: 2 tbsp olive oil 1 onion, thinly sliced 3 red peppers, thinly sliced 2 garlic cloves, crushed 1 tbsp sugar 1 tbsp balsamic vinegar 2 eggs 200ml crème fraîche 1 tbsp Parmesan cheese, freshly grated handful fresh basil leaves, shredded salt & pepper
Method:
First make the pastry. Put the flour, sugar and salt in a food processor and blitz briefly to mix. Add the butter and pulse until the mixture resembles fine breadcrumbs. Transfer to a bowl and stir in enough water to make a dough. Wrap in clingfilm and chill for at least 30 minutes (you can make the filling while the pastry is chilling). Preheat oven to 180°C/Gas 4. Make the filling. Heat the olive oil in a pan, add the onion and cook gently for 10 minutes. Add the red peppers and cook for 20 minutes, until soft. Stir in the garlic and cook for 5 minutes. Turn the heat up, add the sugar and cook until caramelised. Stir in the balsamic vinegar, reduce the heat and cook for 4 minutes. Remove from the heat and leave to cool. In a separate bowl, lightly beat the eggs with the crème fraîche, some seasoning and half the Parmesan. Mix the shredded basil leaves into this custard. Roll the pastry onto a lightly floured surface and use to line a 24cm loose-bottomed flan tin. Cover the base and sides with a piece of baking parchment and fill with baking beans. Place on a baking sheet in an oven and bake for 15-20 minutes, until golden brown, removing the paper and beans for the last 5 minutes or so. Remove from the oven and leave to cool. Reduce oven to 140°C/Gas 1. Place the pepper mixture in the pastry case, pour in the basil custard and sprinkle over the remaining Parmesan. Bake for 30 minutes or until set. Serve warm.