Sweet chilli chicken wings with tahini seeded slaw and smoky potato wedges
Introduction:
Organic chicken wings; meatier than you usually find in a supermarket. Serve with sweet chilli sauce made in our farm kitchen, and a vegetable slaw with added toasted seeds for extra nutrients and crunch. Tahini is a sesame seed paste; it comes in light and dark versions. The light one is good for using in dressings. Added to yoghurt, it makes a good alternative to a mayonnaise for slaws. This same dressing can be thinned down with a little water to use to drizzle over greens and roasted roots. 
Ingredients:
2 garlic cloves, peeled & crushed or finely chopped 2 tsp Chinese five spice powder 1 good tbsp tamari soy sauce 4 tbsp sweet chilli sauce oil for roasting e.g. sunflower or light olive 2 packs of Riverford chicken wings 1 teaspoon smoked sweet paprika 800-1kg potatoes, peeled & cut into wedges 50g mixed seeds 120g Riverford yoghurt 2 tbsp light tahini paste 1 lemon ½ a cabbage, finely shredded 2 large or more smaller carrots, peeled & coarsely grated or cut into thin matchsticks 1 red onion, peeled & very finely sliced salt & pepper
Method:
Preheat the oven to 190˚C fan/Gas 6. In a large baking dish or roasting tin, one that will fit the chicken wings in a single, fairly snug layer, mix the garlic with the five spice powder, soy, chilli sauce, 2 tablespoons of oil and some salt and pepper to season. Toss the chicken wings in the mixture to coat. Put the potatoes in another baking dish or roasting tin. Mix the smoked paprika with 2 tablespoons of oil and some salt and pepper and toss with the potatoes. Put both dishes in the oven (potatoes on the top shelf and chicken on the bottom if they don’t fit side-by-side). They will both take approx 45 minutes-1 hour, depending on your oven and the size of the chicken wings. Turn both chicken and wedges once halfway through, so they cook evenly. Keep an eye on the chicken wings so they don’t burn, cover lightly with foil if needs be. The chicken must be cooked through to serve, with no pink juices remaining; test one by inserting a sharp knife into the thickest part. While the chicken and potatoes are cooking, put the seeds in a small dry frying pan. Heat gently to toast them, stirring now and then, for approx 30-45 seconds (take care not to burn them). In a large bowl, mix the yoghurt, the tahini and the juice from half the lemon. Add the cabbage, carrot, onion and toasted seeds. Season. Toss with just enough tahini dressing to lightly coat the veg. Serve with the chicken and potatoes.