Swiss chard and onion tart
Introduction:
This recipe is not set in stone – consider it a canvas for experimentation: try a few chopped anchovies or some mushrooms sautéed with thyme; exchange some of the chard for beetroot tops, spinach or watercress. You could even crack a couple of eggs on top before baking. 
Ingredients:
for the shortcrust pastry: 175g plain flour 1 tsp caster sugar pinch salt 125g cold unsalted butter, cut into small cubes about 3 tbsp cold water for the filling: 50g butter 3 small onions, finely sliced leaves from 1 sprig thyme 300g Swiss chard 10 olives, chopped ½ tbsp Parmesan or vegetarian alternative, grated 3-4 tbsp crème fraîche
Method:
Preheat oven to 200°C/Gas 6. Make the pastry: Put the flour, sugar and salt in a food processor and process briefly to mix. Add the butter and pulse until the mixture resembles fine breadcrumbs. Transfer to a bowl and stir in enough water to make a dough. Wrap in cling film and chill for at least 30 minutes. Roll out the pastry on a lightly floured surface into a rough circle (or actually any shape – this tart is very rustic, so the less uniform, the better). Place on a baking sheet, prick with a fork in several places and chill for 15 minutes. Bake for 10–15 minutes, until golden brown. Reduce the oven temperatire to 190°C/Gas 5. Make the filling: Heat the butter in a pan, add the onions and thyme and cook gently for about 10 minutes, until soft but not coloured. Meanwhile, separate the chard stalks from the leaves and chop both leaves and stalks roughly, keeping them separate. Add the stalks to a pan of boiling salted water and cook for 2–3 minutes, until tender. Remove the stalks with a slotted spoon and set aside. Add the leaves to the boiling water and blanch briefly. Drain well, refresh under a cold tap and then squeeze to remove as much water as possible. Add the chard stalks and leaves to the onions and reheat gently. Season to taste and mix well. Spread the mixture over the pastry base and sprinkle with the chopped olives, Parmesan and a few blobs of crème fraîche. Bake in the oven for about 15 minutes, until lightly browned.