Tattie scones with garlic mushrooms & tahini dressed greens
Introduction:
The quarter of me that’s of Scottish descent has a little jump for joy when we manage to get a recipe in that originates north of the border. Tattie scones are a versatile dish that can be served either savoury or with butter and jam or marmalade.
Ingredients:
200g closed cup mushrooms 100g portobello mushrooms 2 garlic cloves 1 leek 150g spring greens 150g purple sprouting broccoli 300g potatoes oil for frying, e.g. sunflower or light olive 1 tbsp tahini 2 tbsp yoghurt 1 lemon 25g butter 100g plain flour – ¾ for the scones, with a little extra to dust salt & pepper
Method:
Wipe all the closed cup and half the portobello mushrooms clean. Slice them 1cm thick. Peel and finely chop or crush the garlic. Trim the leek, cut in half lengthways, then thinly shred each half and wash well. Wash the spring greens. Cut out the tough central ribs with a ‘v’ shape. Lay the leaves on top of each other, roll into a cylinder and finely shred. Wash the broccoli. Trim into even-sized pieces, splitting any larger stalks. Use it all, stalk, head and leaves. Scrub the potatoes, peel and chop into 2-3cm pieces. Put them in a saucepan. Cover with water and add a couple of pinches of salt. Bring to the boil and cook until tender, about 10 minutes. While the potatoes boil, heat 2 tablespoons of oil in another saucepan. Add the mushrooms and garlic. Fry, stirring often, for about 4 minutes. Remove from the heat and keep to one side (reheat later to serve). Mix the tahini with the yoghurt. Squeeze in the juice from quarter of the lemon. Add a pinch of salt and whisk in enough cold water to make a dressing roughly the consistency of pouring cream (about 1-2 tablespoons). Put a pan of water on to boil. Drain the potatoes once cooked and leave them in a colander for 5 minutes for the moisture to evaporate. Mash with the butter. Add three quarters of the pot of flour, season with salt and pepper and mix together into a soft ball of dough. Use some of the remaining flour to dust your work surface and rolling pin. Roll the dough out into a rough circle (trim if needs be), about ½cm thick. Dust the circle with some of the remaining flour and lightly prick all over with a fork, then carefully turn, dust and prick the other side. Add all the greens (leek, broccoli, spring greens) to the pan of boiling water and cook until tender, about 3-4 minutes. Drain into a colander, then leave for a moment while you fry the scones. Heat a layer of oil in a large, nonstick frying pan. Fry the scone on a medium heat (not too high or it will catch and burn) until golden on both sides (about 4 minutes a side). See cook’s note on turning the dough. Slide the scone onto a plate, leave for 2 minutes to firm up a little, then cut into 6-8 triangles. Gently reheat the mushrooms and greens. Serve the tattie scone with the mushrooms and greens on the side, drizzled with the tahini dressing.