Teriyaki Steamed Fish with Sticky Jasmine Rice
Introduction:
Cooking fish in a parcel is a very forgiving method. The fish gently steams, without the fierce direct heat that you get from a pan or grill. It will also take on the flavour of any strong aromatics that it shares the space with. There is an air of theatre to opening the parcel at the table. Foil is perfect for the job, but you can also use baking parchment. You’ll need to fold the edges together well, as they will not crimp like foil. Tuck the edges underneath to stop the steam popping the whole thing open. A few strategically placed staples may help too, but remove them before serving. 
Ingredients:
150g jasmine rice 1 lemongrass stalk 1 carrots 1 courgette 3 tbsp teriyaki sauce 2 tbsp mirin 2 tbsp sesame oil 1 garlic clove, finely chopped 1 lime 1 leek, thinly sliced 1 tbsp finely grated ginger 1 fresh chilli, thinly sliced 2 pollock fillets 2 tbsp toasted sesame seeds small bunch of coriander, chopped
Method:
Rinse the rice in a sieve. Transfer to a saucepan. Add 500ml water and a good pinch of salt. Bring to the boil, cover and simmer for 10 minutes. Remove the pan from the heat. Keep it covered and leave it to steam while you finish the rest of the meal. Preheat your oven to 200˚C/Gas 6. Remove and discard the top (thinner) half from the lemongrass. Split the rest of the bulb end in half lengthways. Bash each half with a rolling pin to soften it. Peel the carrots. Use the peeler to pull the carrot into long, thin strips. Rotate it after every few peels, until it becomes impractical to continue. Wash the courgette and peel it into long strips, like the carrot. In a bowl, mix the teriyaki sauce, mirin, sesame oil, garlic and 1 tablespoon lime juice. Set aside. Lay out 2 large squares of foil or parchment (see cook’s note). Equally divide the lemongrass, carrot, courgette, leek, and ginger between the centres of the two sheets. Add some sliced chilli to your taste and top each with a fish fillet. Bring up 2 sides of the foil or parchment to meet in the middle. Starting at both ends, crimp along the edges, sealing in the fish like a pasty, leaving a gap in the middle to pour half the teriyaki mix into each. Seal the parcels and place on a baking tray. Transfer to the oven for 12-15 minutes, depending on the thickness of the fish, until cooked through. Remove the fish from the oven. Carefully unfold the parcel (the steam will be hot). Remove the lemongrass. Divide the rice between 2 bowls, top with the steamed vegetables and fish. Drizzle over any sauce from the bottom of the parcels. Scatter over the sesame seeds and chopped coriander. Garnish with lime wedges and any remaining chilli to taste.