Teriyaki tofu bowl with shiitake, crispy kale & shredded sprouts
Introduction:
This is a big mixed bowl of contrasting textures. Sticky dark mushrooms, crisp roasted tofu with a soft melting centre, crunchy seaweed-like kale and a fresh sweet/sharp salad of raw sprouts, all tethered by a comforting base of unctuous rice. With good organisation, all 5 elements should mesh nicely in their preparation.
Ingredients:
200g jasmine rice 1 packet marinated tofu 200ml tin coconut milk 1 red chilli 1 garlic clove 100g curly kale plain oil, e.g. sunflower or light olive 2 tbsp sesame oil 4-5 Brussels sprouts, depending on size 1 tsp light brown sugar 1 tbsp rice vinegar 150g shiitake mushrooms 2 tbsp teriyaki sauce 1 tsp sesame seeds salt & pepper
Method:
Preheat oven to 200˚C/Gas Mark 5. Rinse the rice very well in the sieve under cold running water. Cut the tofu into evenly sized 1½ cm cubes. Empty the coconut milk into the saucepan, fill the empty tin with water and add that too. Season with a pinch of salt and bring to a simmer. Meanwhile, deseed and finely chop the red chilli. Peel and finely slice the garlic clove. Strip the kale leaves from any large tough looking stalks, discard the stalks and tear the leaves into bite-sized 3cm pieces. Wash the kale and pat or spin the leaves dry. Spread the diced tofu onto a baking tray and turn in just enough plain oil to lightly coat. Pop into the oven to bake for 20 minutes, turning once, halfway through. Tip the rinsed rice into the simmering coconut milk, stir once and cover. Simmer very gently for 20 minutes until the liquid has been absorbed and the rice is tender. Meanwhile, mix the kale in the bowl with 1 tablespoon of the sesame oil and a good pinch of salt. Mix well so that all the leaves are coated. Spread the leaves out on the second baking tray and place in the oven on the shelf below the tofu for 8-10 minutes, turning once midway through. Trim the root ends away from the sprouts and discard any discoloured outer leaves. Cut each one in half and shred them as finely as you can, widthways. Add the sprouts to the bowl you mixed the kale in, along with the sugar, vinegar and half of the chopped chilli. Mix well and season with salt to taste. Slice or tear the mushrooms into chunky pieces and heat the remaining tbsp of sesame oil in the wok until nearly smoking hot. Add the mushrooms and fry them until well-coloured and dark, about 5 minutes. Add the garlic to the mushrooms and fry for 1 further minute before adding the teriyaki sauce. Remove from the heat and stir together. By this time the rice, tofu and kale should be ready. Divide the rice between 2 bowls, follow with the mushrooms, the tofu and then the kale. Tuck the shredded sprouts into one side and scatter over the sesame seeds and remaining chilli to garnish.