Tikka roast cauliflower & chickpea wraps with minted yoghurt
Introduction:
Roasting cauliflower is a great way of cooking as it retains its texture. Cauliflower loves spices, so it’s a good main ingredient in Asian dishes. Here we’re tossing it with chickpeas and a spiced yoghurt, then baking until fragrant and crisp. It’s stuffed into flatbreads with minted yoghurt and salad, for a healthy vegetarian curried kebab.
Ingredients:
1 red onion 75ml red wine vinegar 1 tsp light brown sugar 1 cauliflower 1 large or 2 small garlic cloves 25g piece fresh ginger 1 tin chickpeas 30g fresh coriander 1 pack tikka spice paste 1 pot yoghurt 50g salad leaves 3 tomatoes 1 cucumber 2 tsp dried mint 1 lemon 4 large, rectangular wholemeal tortillas salt & pepper
Method:
Peel, halve and very finely slice the red onion. Put the onion in a bowl (an unreactive one i.e. plastic or stainless steel, not aluminium), with the vinegar and sugar. Add a little water if the onion isn’t completely covered. Leave the onion to steep while you prepare the cauliflower. This softens and lightly pickles it, removing some of its harsh, raw onion pungency. Preheat your oven to 210˚C/Gas Mark 6. Peel the outer leaves off the cauliflower. Halve it, cut out the stalk then chop or break into florets. Chop any large florets into smaller, even-sized pieces, so they cook evenly and in time. Peel and finely chop or crush 1 large or 2 small garlic cloves. Peel and finely grate the ginger. Drain the tin of chickpeas into a colander. Rinse under cold water. Wash the fresh coriander and shake dry or pat with kitchen paper. Roughly chop the leaves. In a baking dish, mix the tikka spice paste, ginger and garlic with half the yoghurt and half the coriander leaves. Toss in the cauliflower and chickpeas. Add a little salt and pepper to season. Roast for 15-20 minutes, until the cauli is almost tender but still with a little bite. Meanwhile, wash the salad leaves. Wash and chop the tomatoes and half the cucumber into small, 1cm dice. Coarsely grate the other half cucumber, avoiding the softer, seedy middle. Mix the dried mint with the remaining yoghurt and grated cucumber. Add a good squeeze of lemon juice and a pinch or two of salt to taste. Warm 4 of the tortillas in the oven on a baking tray for a couple of minutes. Drain the steeped onions. Lay the tortillas on your work surface. Stuff the middle of each with the cauliflower mixture, the drained onions, diced tomato and cucumber. Drizzle the veg with a little of the mint yoghurt and sprinkle over the remaining coriander leaves. Fold one of the narrower ends over then fold the sides over to form a fat kebab. Repeat with the others. Serve with the salad leaves. Eat with your hands if you dare. It can be messy going, so have a knife and fork ready too!