Tomatillo, mango and coriander sauce, with Mexican spiced tomato rice
Introduction:
This recipe doesn’t contain chilli, so is good for those who want to try the tangy tomatillos but can’t take a lot of spice. It would be a good one for children as the mango adds sweetness. If you want a bit of extra kick, add a chopped green chilli with the coriander. Serve this on its own as a vegetarian main, or with a whole roast chicken or some barbecued or chargrilled chicken breasts or kebabs. 
Ingredients:
for the rice: 2 tbsp oil for frying, e.g. vegetable or sunflower 1 red onion, finely chopped 2 garlic cloves, finely chopped ½ tsp ground cumin ½ tsp ground coriander 250g long grain brown rice 480g tomatoes, diced 500ml veg stock for the sauce: 250g tomatillos 200ml veg or chicken stock 1 tbsp olive oil 4 spring onions, chopped 1 small mango, peeled & diced good handful of coriander leaves juice of ½ lime, more to taste salt & pepper
Method:
For the Mexican rice: Heat the oil in a heavy based pan. Add the onion and cook gently for a few minutes to soften. Add the garlic, cumin and coriander and cook for 2 minutes more. Add the rice, tomatoes and stock. Bring to the boil, reduce the heat and simmer for 25 minutes or so, until the rice is just tender. Stir every now and then to stop the rice sticking to the bottom of the pan, particularly towards the end of the cooking time. Add a splash of water if it needs it. Season to taste. For the sauce: Cut the tomatillos in quarters and put in a small saucepan with the stock. Bring to the boil, reduce the heat and simmer for about 4 minutes, until the tomatillos are soft. Heat the oil in a small frying pan. Fry the spring onions for a couple of minutes to soften slightly. Put the tomatillos, with the liquid, into a blender with the spring onions and the rest of the ingredients. Blitz until the mixture is almost smooth, but still with some chunkier pieces. Taste and adjust the seasoning, adding more lime juice if needed. Reheat gently to serve.