Turkish pizza with radish and mint tzatziki
Introduction:
This recipe calls for a little effort in the dough-making department, but it yields sumptuous crisp flatbreads topped with warmly spiced lamb mince, pine nuts and sweet caramelised onions. Drizzle this with the tzatziki and eat it either in slices, folded, or rolled up like a giant taco. You could also make snack-sized pizzas for a more elegant eating style! If you want further delights, add a bowl of hummus on the side. 
Ingredients:
for the pizza dough: 250g pasta flour (00 if you can get it) 3g instant dried yeast granules ½ tsp caster sugar ½ tsp fine sea salt 150ml water 1 tbsp olive oil for the topping: 3 tbsp oil for frying, e.g. vegetable or sunflower 2 onions, finely sliced 2 garlic cloves, crushed 450g minced lamb ½ tsp ground cinnamon 1 tsp ground cumin 1 tsp ground coriander 100g pine nuts, toasted in a dry frying pan until golden juice of ½ lemon for the tzatziki: 200g plain yoghurt 1 garlic clove, crushed 4 tbsp fresh mint, chopped juice of ½ lemon, more to taste ½ tsp ground cumin 1 bunch (10-12) radishes, ends trimmed, washed, cut into fine slices ½ cucumber, diced 4 tomatoes, diced
Method:
First make the pizza dough: Put the flour in a large bowl. Put the yeast and sugar on one side and the salt on the other. Make a well in the middle of the flour. Pour in the water and oil. Stir to mix together, then use your hands to make a soft dough. Remove it from the bowl and knead, lightly oiling the work surface if it starts to stick, for 10 minutes. It should be elastic and smooth. Use a piece of kitchen paper to lightly oil the same bowl, then form the dough into a ball, pop it back in the bowl and cover the bowl with clingfilm. Leave to rise for 4-6 hours - it should double in size. For the topping: Heat 2 tablespoons oil in a large pan. Add the onion and garlic and fry for 5 minutes until the onion is browned and crispy. Remove from the pan and add another tablespoon of oil. Add the lamb and fry until browned all over. Add the onion back to the pan, with the cinnamon, cumin and coriander. Cook for 5 minutes. Stir in the pine nuts and lemon juice. Preheat oven to 230°C/Gas 8. Place a heavy baking tray in the oven and allow it to heat. Make the tzatziki: Stir the yoghurt, garlic, mint and lemon juice together in a bowl. Remove the dough from the bowl and knead for a couple of minutes, then divide into 2 pieces. Allow to rest for 5 minutes, then stretch or roll out each piece to form a long oval shape (it doesn’t have to be too exact). Transfer one pizza onto the heated baking tray. Sprinkle over half the mince. Cook for 10 minutes, or until golden brown and crisp. Sprinkle half of the radish, tomato and cucumber down the middle of the pizza, then half of the tzatziki. Repeat with the other pizza. Serve half a pizza per person, with a green salad.