Turkey & black bean quesadillas with salsa & soured cream
Introduction:
Quesadillas are a great Mexican fast food, ideal for midweek cooking.
Ingredients:
1 red pepper 1 courgette 1 chilli ½ tin black beans 30g fresh coriander 50g salad leaves 2 tomatoes 1 cucumber ½ red onion 1 lime olive oil 300g turkey mince quesadilla spice pot containing: 1 tsp ground coriander 1 tsp ground cumin 1 tsp paprika 1 tbsp tomato purée 4 tortillas oil for brushing e.g. sunflower or light olive 75g Cheddar cheese, grated dollop soured cream salt & pepper
Method:
Deseed and finely dice the pepper. Chop the courgette into small dice too. Deseed and finely chop the chilli. Drain the tin of black beans into a colander and rinse under cold water. Wash the fresh coriander and shake it dry or pat with kitchen paper. Finely chop half the leaves. Wash the salad leaves and leave to drain. For the salsa, finely dice the tomatoes. Finely dice one third of the cucumber. Peel and finely dice half the red onion. Mix all 3 in a bowl with half the chopped fresh chilli and the chopped coriander, adding a squeeze of lime juice, a splash of olive oil and salt and pepper to season. Keep to one side while you make the quesadilla filling. Heat 2 tablespoons of oil in a frying pan. Add the turkey mince and fry until it’s lost all its raw pink colour. Add the pepper, courgette and chilli. Fry for a further 5 minutes. Add the quesadilla spice pot and tomato purée, stir for 1 minute. Add half the black beans and a splash of water, just enough to loosen the mixture a little. Fry for a further 5 minutes. Remove from the heat. Put your oven on a low heat: 160˚C/Gas Mark 2. Brush 4 of the tortillas on one side with a little oil. Put 1 of the tortillas in a large non-stick frying pan, oil side down (if 2 will fit in your pan, make 2 at a time). Sprinkle some cheese over half the tortilla. Place a dollop of the turkey and veg mixture on top, along with a few fresh coriander leaves. Fold the other half of the tortilla over to make a semi-circle, gently pressing down with your hands to flatten it. Cook on a low to medium heat for 1-2 minutes, until the tortilla is crisp and golden brown (keep an eye on it so it doesn’t burn). Carefully turn over using a large fish slice or spatula and cook on the other side. Keep warm in a low oven while you repeat with the others. Cut each one in half to serve, with the salsa, soured cream and salad leaves.