Vegetable fajitas with re-fried beans & soured cream
Introduction:
Fajitas are a super-fast way to a tasty and veg-packed meal. They’re traditionally served with all the individual components at the table to stuff and make them as you go along.
Ingredients:
1 brown onion oil for frying, e.g. sunflower or light olive 1 tin of red kidney beans 1 large or 2 small garlic cloves 1 red onion 1 chilli 1 tsp ground cumin 1 tsp ground coriander 1 low salt vegetable stock cube 1 carrot 1 red pepper 1 courgette 4 tortillas 1 tsp thyme 1 tsp paprika ¼ tsp smoked paprika ¼ tsp allspice 1 tbsp dried coriander leaves 1 pot soured cream salt & pepper
Method:
Peel and finely dice the brown onion. Heat 2 tablespoons of oil in a medium to large saucepan. Cook the onion on a low heat, stirring now and then, for 10 minutes. Add a splash of water if it looks like it might catch and burn. While the onion cooks, drain the kidney beans into a colander and rinse under cold water. Peel and finely the garlic. Peel and slice the red onion. Halve, deseed and finely chop the chilli. After 10 minutes, add the ground cumin, ground coriander and garlic to the onion. Stir for 1 minute. Add the red kidney beans and crumble in half the stock cube. Refill the kidney bean tin two thirds with water. Add that too. Bring the pan up to a low boil and cook for 10 minutes. Keep an eye on the liquid level as it cooks; top up with a splash more water if it drys out too much. Meanwhile, peel and chop the carrot into matchsticks (or thin rounds for speed). Wash, halve and deseed the pepper. Chop into thin slices. Wash the courgette, cut in half lengthways then into half moon shapes. Preheat your oven to a low heat, about 160˚C/Gas Mark 2. Get the tortillas ready on a baking tray. Once the kidney beans have cooked for 10 minutes, coarsely mash them in the pan. Reheat gently on a low heat, stirring now and then so the bottom doesn’t catch, for about 2-5 minutes, just enough so they thicken up slightly. While the beans thicken, pop the tortillas in the oven to warm through. Heat 2 tablespoons of oil in a wok or large frying pan. Add all the veg: pepper, carrot, red onion, courgette, chilli (all or half, depending on your preference), the thyme and spices, dried coriander leaves and a little salt and pepper. Stir-fry for 5 minutes. Once cooked, season the re-fried beans with salt and pepper to taste. Divide the beans between 2 serving plates. Fill the tortillas with the stir-fried veg and top with a dollop of soured cream. Alternatively, serve all the components at the table to make as you go.