Veggie chilli with avocado, soured cream & spelt tortillas
Introduction:
A classic vegetarian chilli, with a little dark chocolate – the key to extra richness in any chilli.
Ingredients:
1 onion 1 large or 2 small carrots 1 red pepper 1 celery stick oil for frying, e.g. sunflower or light olive 1 garlic clove 1 tin red kidney beans ¼ tsp dried chilli flakes – add to taste 1 tsp tomato purée 20g chocolate 1 tin chopped tomatoes 1 cucumber 1 avocado 1 lime 4 spelt tortillas 50g grated cheddar 100ml soured cream salt & pepper ½ tsp dried oregano, ½ tsp paprika, ¼ tsp smoked paprika, ½ tsp ground cumin, ½ tsp ground coriander
Method:
Peel and finely dice the onion. Wash and peel the carrot(s). Wash, halve and deseed the pepper. Wash the celery. Chop all 3 veg into about 1cm dice. Heat 2 tablespoons of oil in a large saucepan. Fry all the above veg over a low heat for 10 minutes, stirring now and then and adding a splash of water if they look like they might catch and burn. Meanwhile, peel and finely chop or crush the garlic clove. Drain the red kidney beans into a colander. Rinse under cold water. After 10 minutes, add the garlic, chilli flakes (add the chilli flakes to taste – all or half, depending on your preference for heat), the spices and tomato purée. Stir for 2 minutes. Add the chocolate, red kidney beans and tinned tomatoes to the cooking veg. Refill the tin with water and add that too. Bring the pan up to a low boil. Simmer for 25 minutes, until the veg is tender. Top up with a little water if needed to stop it becoming too gloopy. Meanwhile, wash and finely dice half of the cucumber. Halve and de-stone the avocado, then finely dice. Mix with the cucumber, the juice from half the lime and a pinch of salt. When the chilli is cooked, gently warm the tortillas in a large dry frying pan for a couple of minutes (you can lay them on top of each other and just rotate them now and then). Alternatively, you can place them under a warm grill for a couple of minutes or rub them with a little oil and griddle for more colour, if you have one. Divide the chilli between 2 serving bowls. Serve with a dollop of soured cream, the cheese, the cucumber and avocado salsa and warmed tortillas.