Yakitori chicken noodles with sesame & greens
Introduction:
Yakitori chicken is usually cooked on a skewer, over hot coals or under a fierce grill. For this dish I have taken the ingredients used for a yakitori marinade and used it as a sauce for the noodles. If the chicken is browned well in the wok and the sauce reduces to a sticky glaze then you’ll get the same effect and save all the threading and unthreading of the chicken. When cooking in a wok on a high heat it only takes a few minutes for everything to come together, so it is vital to prep everything you need in advance and have it ready and to hand.
Ingredients:
2 garlic cloves 25g ginger 2 tbsp soy sauce 2 tbsp mirin 1 tsp brown sugar 300g diced chicken breast 2 spring onions 2 courgettes 200g spring greens 200g udon noodles 30g coriander 2 tbsp sesame oil 1 tbsp sesame seeds
Method:
Peel and finely chop, crush or grate both the garlic and the ginger. Mix them with the soy, mirin and brown sugar. Keep to one side. Put a pan of salted water on to boil. Trim away the root end of 2 spring onions and remove any tired looking outer layers. Slice the onions very finely, at an angle. Wash the courgettes. Using a veg peeler, peel them into long, ribbonlike lengths. Slice the ribbons into fine strips, this is easily done by stacking 3 or 4 on top of each other at a time. Wash the spring greens. Strip or cut out the central tough ribs then very finely slice the leaves. Wash the coriander and shake it dry. Chop it roughly, stalks and all. Place the noodles into the boiling water. Cook for 8 minutes, until just tender. Drain and cool them immediately in cold water to stop them cooking. Leave them in the cold water until needed. Put the wok on a medium heat. Add the sesame seeds. Keep them moving in the pan until they toast and lightly colour, this won’t take long. Tip them out of the pan and keep them to one side. Put the wok back onto the heat. Heat the sesame oil in the wok until very hot. Add the spring greens. Beware of spitting oil as you do so. Stir-fry them vigorously for 1 minute. Add the chicken, courgette and a pinch of salt. Continue to fry for 2 minutes, until the chicken has browned nicely. Add the spring onions and your homemade yakitori sauce. Allow it to bubble and reduce for 1 minute or so while you drain the noodles. Add the noodles and toss them together for 1 minute, until heated through. Remove from the heat and throw in the coriander. Toss together until well mixed. Divide between bowls. Top with the toasted sesame seeds.